# EXPLORING THE MAIN FLOOR OF MOONRISE TOWERS

After you encounter the trader in blood, you can continue to explore the Main Floor of the Moonrise Towers and head to (X:-152 Y:-200) where you will find Ketheric Thorm sitting on his throne and his audience. The lives of Fezzerk and his group are being decided upon by Z'rell. Allow things to unfold before you so Ketheric Thorm will turn his attention to you and will ask for your judgment. Then, tell him to be kind to these soldiers.

If you choose the first one, Ketheric Thorm will disagree, saying that he can't afford more mistakes. He will order the goblins to be killed, but one of the unbelievers, the one unaffected by the parasite, will throw a spear into Thorm's chest, in an attempt to kill him. However, it seems that Thorm is unaffected by this and kills the goblin swiftly. Fezzerk's fate will be handed over to you, and you are free to decide on how you want to deal with them.

If you show mercy on the goblins, Astarion will disapprove of this. Continue to go around the Main Floor of Moonrise Towers and you will find Lann Tarv, who will have a dialogue with Karlach. An old friend of hers, named Flo, wishes to hand over three Soul Coins to her. These soul coins can come in handy, but you also consider that it's dangerous to accept any offers from a Cambion. If you reject this, Karlach will give you a disapproval. After that, you may also check Lann Tarv's wares, who is also a trader. Also, Roah Moonglow, another trader is also stationed here. 

You will come across Mig, a troll who tells you about meat sounds. She suspects that it's as big as the whole tower and can be heard loudest from the kitchen. With this, you head to the Kitchen located at (X:-112 Y:-197). You will find Linsella among gnolls that seem tame enough to listen to her. As you talk to her, you will find out that she was able to control them with the power of The Absolute granted to her, putting the beasts under her control. As she demonstrates her power, the gnoll will try to break free from her. Your character will get an option to intervene or not.

As Linsella tries to demonstrate how she can control the gnoll that she calls Barnabus, he will be free from her control and attacks her as. Now, in the face of a gnoll, use the Persuasion check on it so that the gnoll will not attack you if you are successful. This event called "Pied Piper" will inspire Astarion, where you will successfully influence gnolls, either to break free or continue being subservient. Following the meat sounds that the troll mentioned earlier, you will arrive at (X:-127 Y:-175) You will find some sort of mucus blocking a doorway. Given its current state, your party won't be able to enter and investigate from here. 
