# RETURN AND INFILTRATE MOONRISE TOWERS

With Dame Aylin leading the fight against Ketheric Thorm's army, she will fly across the Shadow Cursed Lands and make her way to Moonrise Towers. As for your party, your travel will begin at the bridge of Moonrise Towers where Jaheira awaits at the foot of the stairs. She tells you that she is the last one standing, and asks if you will take the final steps together, with her.

If you choose to have Jaheira on your side, Karlach will give you her approval. You will be leading the assault on Moonrise Towers and you will find Thorm's army waiting for you at the Main Floor. You will battle Disciple Z'rell, Barnabus, and the others. Make sure to plan ahead so you come out victorious in this battle. You will have temporary companions in this area, like Jaheira, and you can take full control of her temporarily.

After clearing the Main Floor, Jaheira offers to stay behind as you go up the tower with your party and assist Dame Aylin. She wants to make sure that no one will be able to cross and assist the battle against Thorm. She tells you that the final audience with Ketheric Thorm awaits you. There are still enemies awaiting on the First Floor that you must defeat on your way to reach Thorm. Fight the disciples and eliminate them to find Thorm. 

As you open the Ornate Door, this will lead you to Moonrise Towers Rooftop, where a weakened Ketheric Thorm stands before you. He demands to know what you have done to him and you can try to reason, persuade, or intimidate Ketheric Thorm. If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 10. Balthazar responds that there is no redemption for him. He acknowledges that he has died a long time ago and he only intends to bring Isobel back. After this, you get another set of options to understand how Ketheric Thorm came to be.

Thorm will refuse to believe that he can still redeem himself because the Moonmaiden failed to intervene when his life was dismantled. He acknowledges that a true soul like you has defeated him, but the gods beat him first. Offering to help Ketheric or by choosing the first option will get Karlach's approval but Aylin will interrupt your conversation and demands that Thorm fight. You can try to tell Aylin that he has surrendered, but Aylin refuses to believe your word and will continue the battle against him. Thorm now realizes that he needs to use his power that can't be hidden anymore.  He offers you one last chance to bow, or he will destroy both you and Dame Aylin. 

He commands you to bow but it will be revealed that you have The Prism with you. This angers Ketheric Thorm and the battle will now begin against Ketheric Thorm. Your party will raise their weapons against Thorm and what's left of his army on the rooftop. There's still quite a handful of them here and they are surrounding the area. Make sure to plan accordingly and focus on defeating Thorm first. Once you get Thorm's HP to 0, he will not be downed, but instead, he stands up once more and tells you that his Lord beckons him. Dame Aylin will fly away and swoop down as if ready to end it all, however, Thorm has been keeping his trump card all this time. 

A colossal tentacle swings upwards from the foot of the tower and attacks Dame Aylin, she vanishes right before your eyes together with Thorm who was able to escape his fate, for now. There are still enemies left behind by Thorm, make sure to eliminate them to focus on the task at hand. When you're done fighting, make sure to search the chest atop the throne where Ketheric Thorm was seated. You will find Jaheira has followed you to the rooftop.  She tells you that she fears that the Nightsong has been captured again and that their next step is to follow it beneath the tower to find them. You will get the following options to respond:

Don't you want to see how this ends?
I can handle this- don't worry. 
For the next dialogue, you will get an option if you want Jaheira to follow you in battle. If not, she will stay behind and be on guard with her harpers. After Thorm's escape, the one way to reach them is to drop down the chasm created by the colossal tentacle. You can camp just before you begin the next battle so you can replenish your health and spell slots of your party.
