# RUINED BATTLEFIELD

## Quests
- Reach Moonrise Towers
- Find a Way to Protect Yourself from the Curse
- Reach Last Light Inn

After you head up the elevator within Grymforge, you’ll find yourself in a place that looks like the ruins of a part of Grymforge. The plaques here have some writings pertaining to the Shar, and moving straight ahead to the west brings you to a locked Absolutist Expedition Trunk with lockpicking DC of 10, containing some potions and/or elixirs. Heading up the stairs and following the path around will have you bump into Elminster Aumar. He’ll call you over to ask about Gale. If you don't have him in your party, you'll get automatically transported to camp where you'll talk to him to hear a message Mystra herself charged him to deliver. It seems Gale will be forgiven for whatever wrong he did to Mystra, provided he put an end to all your problems by finding the Heart of the Absolute, and blowing it up with the orb he has inside, along with himself.

Exit the camp to find yourself back at the castle ruins. Past where Elminster was is an Absolutist Expedition Key, in case you aren’t able to pick the lock of the previous chest. Head to the west to a hall filled with overgrown roots. On the broken pillar to your right is a Broken Moonlantern. The corpse on your left should have some scrolls as well as Orders. It seems this particular adept was killed by her own explosives. Head further west to the end of the hall to finally enter the Shadow-Cursed Lands, specifically the Ruined Battlefields.

After the short scene, follow the path to the south. You’ll eventually have to cross some shadow-cursed ground, which will cause you to be afflicted with the Shadow Curse as well. Use a Torch or cast anything that can light your way in order to prevent yourself from being afflicted. Shadowheart seems to be immune to the curse, as a chosen of Shar. 

Head back north and then cross the bridge now to the southwest. The path up to the structure further south leads to a dead end and a skeleton you could loot for some jewelry and an Unsent Letter. Before you go down, you might want to light the brazier to give you a boost for later. Head down to the west to bump into the Harpers. Despite your best efforts at subterfuge, their leader Lassandra will spot you and ask who’s there. You’ll have the following choices to respond with:
- Lower your weapon first.
- My name is Tav. Who are you?
- A nightmare in the dark.
- Back away from them, palms up

Choosing the first and second choice will have them ask you to come forward with your hands up. You’ll roll a Perception check to see that it’s safe to do so. Unfortunately, one of them fails to move close enough with the torchers and gets taken by something in the dark. He emerges afterward, corrupted by the shadows. You’ll have the following dialogue options to choose from form here:
NOTE: Some dialogue interactions will have additional options depending on the Race or Class of your character.
- Move. I’ll take care of this.
- Get ready to fight.
- [WARLOCK] His soul… consumed by darkness. Not a good sign.
- Run

Choosing any of these options aside from the last one will initiate a combat engagement. You’ll be up against seven Enemies - six Shadows, and a corrupted Yonas, and will have the help of the Harpers. They shouldn’t be too hard but just don’t forget that you’ll get afflicted with the curse if you aren’t near a source of light. Any ranged allies can safely fight from the lit brazier in the higher structure back to the south. There will be a Shadow there though, so they will still have to be careful. After the fight, Lassandra will show you where you can go that’s safe from the curse. You’ll have the following choices to reply with:
- ‘Safe place’? You mean somewhere the shadows can’t penetrate?
- I’ll follow in a moment.
- Thanks, but I’m heading to Moonrise Towers.

Choosing the first will have her explain that the place she mentioned is an inn that’s magically protected. It also seems like traveling deeper in won’t be safe anymore with just torches and light Spells.

Follow the path to the southwest to move further along. You’ll eventually spot a raven on the ground. Your party will roll Arcana checks to see that the raven has been claimed by the shadows. Interacting with it will start a combat engagement against twelve Shadow-Cursed Ravens. They shouldn’t be too hard to get through but you will have the added handicap of being Surprised. After the fight, you can loot the original raven’s body for a note marked “HELP!” There should be a locked Traveler’s Chest atop the roof of the nearby dilapidated house with a lockpicking DC of 10 if you’d like to jump up and get it. Otherwise, continue southwest.

You’ll eventually get to an intersection. The path on your right to the northwest will lead to the Last Light Inn that the Harpers pointed you toward. In fact, you’ll find them at the entrance to the place so move toward them for a cutscene.

# LAST LIGHT INN

## Quests
- Reach Moonrise Towers
- Talk to Jaheira
- Get Help from the Cleric Isobel
- Find Protection from the Shadow Curse

They’ll allow you in and you’ll be able to meet Jaheira for the first time. She’ll use some nature magic to root you in place, to which you have the following options to respond with:

Just this once, I wish people would simply say hello.
Jaheira, is it? I’m Tav, and I assure you none of this is necessary.
You have to the count of five to let me go.
Choosing the second option will just make them push further. You’ll have the following options to respond with next:

Easy. Give me a chance to earn your trust.
I saved your soldiers and this is the thanks I get?
Could you at least explain to me why you’re doing this?
Back off. Now.
It seems she is mainly suspicious of you because she has a captured tadpole reacting to the tadpole in your brain, which makes them think you’re a True Soul. You’ll have the following options to respond with:

I am not… a True Soul…
Look to the Harpers you saved.
Accept your fate.
[STRENGTH] Rage against the vines.
[WARLOCK] Beseech your patron to help you.
If you choose the fifth option, Mol will intervene and vouch for you. Jaheira will then question how you could have a tadpole but not be a thrall. You’ll have the following choices to answer the question:

Because of this artefact. (Show Jaheira)
I work in mysterious ways.
You’ll just have to take my word for it.
Attack
Karlach will approve of the first option. The tadpole she has will react negatively to the artefact as you take it out. Jaheira will question what exactly you are showing her, to which you’ll have the following choices to respond with:

Tell Jaheira everything you know about the artefact.
So far it’s been a life-saver. Here’s hoping you agree.
Your guess is as good as mine.
If you choose the first option, they’ll finally ease up on you and ask why you’re there. You’ll have the following options to reply with:

To destroy the Absolute in its lair: Moonrise Towers.
I just want a cure for the parasite in my head. Moonrise Towers is my only lead.
I’m here on holiday.
My intentions are my own.
Choosing the second option will finally have them let you off to your own devices, before inviting you for a drink in the inn. Afterward, move forward and examine the runes on your right to activate the Waypoint for the Last Light Inn. Head down the path further in to the opening at (X:51, Y:143) that leads to the actual inn. There will be a realistic bear statue on your left as you enter. Your character will do a Nature check as you enter to ascertain what it actually is. Head inside and find Jaheira at (X:67, Y:139) and talk to her. She’ll propose a toast to your health. You’ll have the following options to choose from in response, if you have Karlach with you:

To your very good health.
[MEDICINE] Smell the wine first.
You’ll have to pardon my friend Karlach. She’s very excited to meet you.
I’m not thirsty.
If you choose the second option and pass the Medicine check, you’ll discover that she’s laced the drink with an herb that acts like a truth serum. You’ll have the option to express your trust wavering as a result afterward, but then you’ll still have to choose whether you’ll drink it or not. Drinking it will gain disapproval from Astarion and Shadowheart, but will gain approval from fangirl Karlach, if you’ve brought any of them with you. Jaheira will then ask if the parasite is affecting you or not. You’ll have the following choices to answer the question with:

I see now why you’ve spiked my wine.
Yes. The parasite is giving me powers I never had before. It’s changing me for the better.
It’s trying to change me, trying to win me over, but I’m resisting its temptations.
[SAVING THROW] Despite knowing you’re under the effects of a drug, try to deny the tadpole has any influence over you.
The first option will just have her press you for a different answer. Choosing the fourth choice and being successful will have her be satisfied with your answer, but explain why she has to be cautious. She will say that tracking the parasites led her to someone who should’ve been dead for over a century. If you ask who it is, she’ll reveal it to be General Ketheric Thorn, the leader of the Absolutist cult. It seems that not only is he not dead, he’s also currently unkillable. They had an encounter with him as he and his army were marching to Baldur’s Gate. Suffice it to say, he defeated them and had them chased all the way to this inn. However, she seems to have some hope in you. You can respond to this with the following choices:

What do you have in mind?
You think I can kill him?
I don’t think so.
Her plan is to have you infiltrate his base as a True Soul and find out how to deactivate his invincibility. You’ll have the following options to reply with:

Ketheric’s days are numbered. I’ll make sure of it.
You want to make use of my infection - I want to be cured of it.
Seems like I’ll be doing most of the heavy lifting.
I’m not doing this.
Choosing the second option will have her explain that you’ll probably find a means to cure yourself in the Moonrise Towers anyway. You can then ask her how to get there past the debilitating shadows. She’ll explain that Isobel, a Cleric of Selune, protects the inn with her light, and will be the key that’ll let you protect against the darkness. She bids you go upstairs to talk to the Cleric, at her recommendation.

Head up the stairs at (X:71, Y:134) to get to the second floor. Isobel can be found on a balcony to the north, which you can reach through a door at (X:64, Y:168). You’ll see the shielding spell take its toll on her before she notices you. Choosing the first choice will have her express that she’s full glad to have you as their little miracle against the darkness. She’ll proceed to enchant you and your party with the same shield she’s cast around the inn but will warn you that it won’t be enough to protect you when you reach the depths of the Shadow-Cursed Lands, though it should be enough to reach Moonrise Towers.

As she gives you advice on how to best Ketheric, you get interrupted by Flaming Fist Marcus, a former brave ally of theirs, now turned by the Enemy in exchange for a pair of wings. You’ll have the following options to react with:

What are you?
Isobel, do you know this man?
I say we follow the winged freak.
After she introduces him to you, he’ll reveal himself as a True Soul and try to telepathically order you to take Isobel back to their home base. You’ll have the following options to respond with:

[WISDOM] Probe his thoughts for more information.
What does he want with her?
Sounds like fun - I’m with you.
I’m not like you - I don’t take orders from the Absolute’s cronies.
Touch her and I’ll kill you.
Choosing the first option and passing the Wisdom check will allow you to see Ketheric give the order to Marcus. Isobel will question your telepathic interaction, to which you’ll have the following options to respond with:

Marcus is trying to kidnap you, Isobel. We’re going to need to fight our way out of this one.
Say nothing.
You’re going to meet Ketheric - face-to-face.
Choosing the first option will result in a combat engagement, signaled by 

Marcus will let out a roar to call out more minions, and you’ll enter a combat engagement. For this fight, you’ll have to attempt to defeat Flaming Fist Marcus and six Winged Horrors. All of them are going to do their best to go straight of Isobel. Your best bet for a small chance of winning here is to use a protection spell on Isobel, while you dish out as much damage as you can on Marcus before he knocks Isobel out. Chances are, however, you’ll lose this fight due to Marcus’ sheer bulk and power. After he knocks out Isobel, all hell will break loose in the inn, resulting in the death of most of its inhabitants. The shields will disappear, allowing the shadows to enter the inn and turn some into Enemies, while the others die to the turned.

Outside, Jaheira will see the shields melt and ask you what happened. Choosing the first choice will have her restate your mission to figure out Ketheric’s invincibility. Before you get out of here to do that though, you’ll have to clear the area of allies turned to foes. This won’t be difficult by any means, other than the fact that they used to be innocents. There’ll be another group waiting for you on the bridge to the southeast, which is also going to bring in some Creepers. After the fight, proceed to the bridge at (X:-11, Y: 120) to head back to the Ruined Battlefield.

 

# RUINED BATTLEFIELD

## Quests
Reach Moonrise Towers
Find Stronger Protection from the Shadow Curse
Take the Drider's Moonlantern
 

After crossing the bridge back from Last Light Inn, head straight ahead to the path at (X:11, Y:9), toward the southeast. When the path splits three ways, head to the southwest first, to your right. You’ll come across the bodies of cultists and refugees alike. Loot as necessary. This must be where the ambush happened.  The path splits three ways here again, so head first to the path going up to the west. You’ll notice some standing torches. A successful Arcana check will tell you they’re continual flames that can’t be put out. Follow the path out of this small camp to the southwest. You’ll come across a dilapidated storehouse right after an arch formed by a tree. Passing a Perception check here apprises you of a movable brick by the storehouse’s entrance. If you look closely inside, however, there are invisible meazals waiting to ambush you. Deal with the meazals however you see fit. If you brought Karlach along, she’ll gain inspiration from being attacked by invisible foes lying in wait. Loot as necessary as you explore the storehouse. Head back to the entrance and jump on a ledge to the left of the storehouse to then get to the roof. Cross the roof to the far end of the storehouse, where there’s a locked Potter’s Chest with a lockpicking DC of 14 containing a pair of Luminous Gloves.

Head back to the entrance of the storehouse and head up the stairs to the southeast. You should see some wooden stairs on your left as you go so head up there head into the ruined house. A cutscene will ensue as you watch some cultist pass by, led by the drider Kar’niss. One of them will notice you in the shadows who yells at you to reveal yourself. You’ll have the following options to react:

Clear your throat to make yourself known.
Stay hidden, keep watching.
Attack!
If you choose to stay hidden, there’ll be an internal squabble, resulting in Kar’niss slaughtering the goblin that noticed you, so you’ll have one less to kill. After that, you can either clear your throat and reveal yourself, or do a Stealth check to wait for them to pass. Choosing the first option will have the drider recognize you as a True Soul and ask how you’ve survived the shadows without protection. As per your current objective of finding the answer to the same question, you can ask him in return how he has survived thus far. He’ll reveal that the lantern he carries is the key. You’ll then have the following courses of action to choose from:

[INTIMIDATION] The Absolute has asked me to carry the lantern. Hand it over.
Thank you - let’s go.
Or I could kill you and take that light.
Naturally, choosing the third option will result in a fight, but there’s no telling if he’ll give the lantern over anyway. Kar’niss will likely start the fight with Sanctuary. If anyone in your party has Counterspell as a reaction, you can stop this. Otherwise, it’s not a bad thing to let it happen as might want to take care of the Enemies with lower health points anyway. Thanks to your antics, you’ll have to clear out the drider, two goblins, and two Half-Orcs. Kar’niss has a massive amount of health, but you should be able to whittle him down easily especially once he’s alone.

Looting him afterward will net you his Moonlantern and the Cruel Sting longsword. Taking the Moonlantern will reveal a pixie trapped inside that’s responsible for the light that protects against even the deeper shadows. A successful Intelligence check will tell you that they can be playful and even malicious. Dolly Dolly Dolly, the pixie will claim that she’s in constant pain inside the lantern as it’s the only way to get the light shining constantly. You’ll have the following options to respond with:

Who are you?
You’re fuel for the lantern? How does that work?
What’s this mechanism at the base of the lantern?
Release the pixie.
Ignore the pixie. You’ll be needing this lamp.
Choosing the first option will have the pixie formally introduce itself as Dolly Dolly Dolly, and ask you to free her. Afterward, the first option will be replaced by a proposal to help you travel through the shadows in exchange for freeing her. If you choose that option, it’ll seem to wholeheartedly agree to it. Asking about the mechanism will have it claim that it’s dangerous for her to even talk about it. If you choose to release it, you’ll gain approval from Astarion and Karlach if you brought them along. She’ll then ask how she can repay you, and you’ll have the following options to answer with:

I need to get through this shadow curse. Can you help?
What’s on offer?
Nothing - my help doesn’t come with strings attached.
Choosing the first option will have her toy with you for a bit but ultimately give you a magic bell, called the Filigreed Feywild Bell, that you can ring for the protection you asked for. Continue looting as necessary. One of the goblins will have some Thermoarcanic Gloves you can cop. Note that the pixie already has you blessed so there’s no need to actually use the bell yet. There’s a locked chest on the southwest side of the house that you can lockpick, or you can get the key for it on the roof, which you can get to with the ladder. You can now safely travel anywhere across the Shadow-Cursed Lands.

Depending on whether or not you’ve got Wyll in your party if you rest at camp now, Mizora will come for a visit. She’ll tell you that one of Zariel’s devils has been captured by the cultists and brought to Moonrise Towers. Wyll’s next task, as per their pact, is to free this devil. If you ask why you have to save the devil, she’ll do her usual referencing of their contract. Before she leaves, you’ll do a Perception check here to see if she’s hiding anything behind her usual attitude, and blurry appearance.

If you did choose to take a long rest, you’ll be visited by your Dream Visitor again as you sleep. They’ll comment on how strong the Absolute’s influence is where you are, and then commend you for saving the refugees at the grove. You can respond with the following options:

It wasn’t even a choice. They needed my help.
It doesn’t seem like my help did them much good. The cultists caught up with them.
It was a waste of time. I regret it now.
I didn’t do it for them. The goblins were in my way, so I killed them.
Choosing the first option will have them say it’s not a choice just anyone could make, before wincing in pain. A successful Perception check will tell you that they’re hiding their struggle to protect you. You’ll have the following options to react with:

What is it?
Are you all right?
Focus! Don’t you dare drop my protection.
Say nothing.
A successful Insight check this time will tell you that despite her disciplined, strong demeanor, they also need some comfort. You'll have the option to give them a hug here. They’ll appreciate the gesture if you choose to hold them and mention that it’s been quite a while since they’ve been held by someone. If you ask them who it was that used to hold them, they’ll reveal the name Belynne who they were very close to. They’ll tell you how the Absolute’s mental attacks to transform you have been relentless, but they’ll reaffirm her resolve to protect you for as long as they can.

Before leaving camp, you can talk to Wyll who’ll be quite pissed at his new task. You can ask him if this task violates their contract, as he was supposed to be killing devils, not rescuing them. Knowing how Mizora thinks, however, he confirms that the contract doesn’t say anything about saving a devil so the task still stands. You can continue the conversation which will end with the resolution to complete the task so he doesn’t get turned into a lemure.

Back to the ruined house where you fought the drider, head to the southeast, and turn left at (X:31, Y:-13). You’ll pass by another house with a chest containing a book and some valuables. If you look out on the cliff toward the north, you’ll see the Waypoint for the Ruined Battlefield below you. Get to it by heading back toward the southwest and then turning right at the fork.

From the Waypoint, follow the path west all the way to the end. You should find yourself back at the ruined storehouse where you fought some meazals. Enter the building and then turn left at the end this time, toward the south, at (X:-50, Y:3). As you follow the path, there should be a ruined tower on your left. Be careful going in, as a successful Perception check will reveal an explosive trap at the entrance. Inside, there should be a locked Traveler’s Chest under the shelf among the pots, with a lockpicking DC of 10, containing a Ring of Twilight. If you head to the west there’ll be a short, messy wooden bridge leading to some stairs with a thick layer of shadows. This is the entrance to the Reithwin Mason’s Guild.

 

# REITHWIN MASONS' GUILD

## Quests
- Reach Moonrise Towers
- Investigate the Thorm Mausoleum
 

Coming from the eastern entrance, from the Ruined Battlefield, head north along the walls first. In the end, you should be able to find a ladder that will let you climb up and reach a Heavy Chest at (X:-112, Y:0), which contains some potions and valuables. Climb back down and head back toward where you came from, but turn right to enter the paved area at (X:-114, Y:-12). Head inside the door here to a building that has some statues lined up. The table to your immediate right should have a Barkskin Recipe for you to read. If you move forward, there’ll be a pile of bones on top of some concrete. Investigating the plaque below it will inspire you if you have picked the Guild Artisan Background. Head through the door past it to the north and then head to the west side to find an Ornate Wooden Hatch. Enter it to enter the Masons' Guild.

Down here, head up the stairs to the left to circle around the room. At the end of the room, a successful Perception check will reveal a Keyholed Herald on the wall. You can either lockpick the keyhole or use a Tower-Shaped key to open a path in the wall. Follow the path to a Reinforced Gilded Chest. Another successful Perception check will reveal that it’s trapped, but don’t bother ‘cause it’s empty. Move forward and go through the wooden doors to a large chamber with a dining table. Exploring this area will put you in a combat engagement against five Shadows led by a Wraith. The fight shouldn’t be too hard, but be wary of the Wraith. At the southern end of the hall is another Gilded Chest that’s trapped. Its disarming DC is 21, and its lockpicking DC is 14. It should contain the Helmet of Arcane Acuity. On the east side of the chamber on the upper level is a button you can only find by passing the Perception check. Clicking it will reveal another hidden room behind the wall. Inside will be two Armored Chests with some scrolls and potions.

Head all the way back to where you landed upon entering the hatch. Interact with the stone slab connected to the elevator to head up. Up here, cross the bridge of vines to head to the west to a small graveyard. Turn to the left and open the gate. If you were able to save Arabella at the grove, you’ll see a cutscene with her if you talk to her here. It seems touching the idol back then gave her some power over nature. If you ask her where her parents are, she’ll recount how they got separated by the cultist ambush. Afterward, if you tell her you’ll find her parents, you’ll gain approval from Karlach and Shadowheart. Shadowheart will also approve of allowing her to stay at your camp. Move forward to the northeast for a Perception check. If you pass it, you’ll find the True Love’s Caress among the pile of bones nearby. There are Grated Iron Doors to the north that you can lockpick with 10 DC. Inside is a sarcophagus hiding the Boots of Apparent Death.

There’s another chamber to the north with two sarcophagi inside, containing the Icebite Robe and some minor items. If you head out and continue your journey to the west from here, you’ll find the door to the House of Healing. If you ignore the door and head north you’ll come across some Dark Justiciar corpses. Continue along the path to eventually find Raphael. He’ll start you off with a warning in the form of a rhyme, to which you can call out his worry over you. Afterward, you can ask him what dangers he’s warning you about. If you ask him for specifics, he’ll explain that there’s an ancient demon ahead lost to time, and approaching them risks awakening their plague onto the world if you don’t manage to kill it. If you want him to be more specific, you can try to pass a Persuasion check. Afterward, you can do an Insight check to see if he’s hiding anything else from you. Upon further probing, you’ll learn that it’s an Orthon you’re after. Telling him that he’s afraid of this target will have him warn you not to underestimate it. Finally, he’ll assure you that he hasn’t forgotten his end of the bargain about translating the scars on Astarion’s back. Behind him, to the southwest is the entrance to the Grand Mausoleum.

# GRAND MAUSOLEUM

## Quests
- Investigate the Thorm Mausoleum

After entering, when you go through the iron fence, you’ll hear a talking skull telling you to beat it, but it won’t do anything else if you interact with it. A part of Ketheric Thorm’s diary sits near his diseased wife’s coffin. Other parts as scattered around this area if you want to look into his past. In the eastern area of this first area, you can find a locked Traveller’s Chest at (X:-259, Y:-882). It has a lockpicking DC of 14 and contains the Vivacious Cloak, some alchemy materials, some valuables, and possibly a potion or two.

Loot the rest of the area as much as you’d like, and then head over to the northern section. The plaque here reveals that Isobel is Ketheric’s daughter and that the tomb here belonged to her. Successful Perception checks here will reveal traps on the vents and various tiles on the floor, as well as gargoyle heads on the walls, all around the room. To move forward from here, you’ll have to press the buttons below the three paintings around the room in the right order. Start with the button below the Moonrise Towers painting first, and then the Grief painting beside it, before finally pressing the last button under Ketheric Thorm’s painting. Getting the order correctly will open up the walls beside the last painting and allow you to pass through. Interact with the Traversal Gem here to travel down and get to the Gauntlet of Shar.


# GAUNTLET OF SHAR

## Quests
- Reach Gauntlet of Shar by Hidden Room in Grand Mausoleum
- Meeting Balthazar
- Sharran Trials
- Silent Library
- Inner Sanctum
- Nightsong's Prison
 

To reach the Gauntlet of Shar, you have to be within the Reithwin Graveyard in Grand Mausoleum. Successful Perception checks here will reveal traps on the vents and various tiles on the floor, as well as gargoyle heads on the walls, all around the room. In order to reveal the path, you need to press the buttons under the 3 paintings in the following order: Start with the button below the Moonrise Towers (X:-248 Y:-848) painting first, and then the Grief (X:-278 Y:-842) painting beside it, before finally pressing the last button under Ketheric Thorm’s (X:-280 Y:-830) painting. After pressing the corresponding buttons, the walls beside the last painting will open up and allow you to pass through. You'll find a platform there with a Traversal Gem, interact with it to travel down the Gauntlet of Shar. There are 4 Umbral Gems in Gauntlet of Shar, you need to collect all of them in order to progress Shadowheart's personal quest, Daughter of Darkness: The Chosen of Shar.

Continue heading north and go through the first Stone Door to enter the first chamber. In this area, there is a small statue holding an orb. You'll get pushed back if you attempt to approach it. In order to solve this puzzle, you need to explore the side rooms and pull the levers to lower all the lanterns. Do note that all rooms with levers will have traps. Once you've pulled all the levers, interact with the lowered lanterns to extinguish the light. When the room is completely shrouded in darkness, you'll see the pattern on the floor. Use only one character to crouch-walk and avoid the glowing lines to prevent your character from being blasted away. Once you touch the orb, you will open the door leading to the next area. For an easy way to reach the orb in the middle of the forcefield, you can use any sort of teleportation and simply teleport directly next to the orb and then click the Umbral Gem.

Now continue heading west and on the left side of the room (X:-775 Y:-853), you can jump across the platforms that'll lead you to the next area. All of your characters should be able to make the jump as the platforms are relatively close to each other. You can then go down through the cragged rock (X:-801 Y:-850). As you move forward, you'll see a Cloaker in the area. If you pass the perception check, you'll notice you're going through an area that's perfect for an ambush, then you'll initiate combat. The Cloaker can summon Phantasms which are basically clones of itself. It is recommended that you aim for the main body, as killing the Cloaker will make the Phantasms disappear. There's a chest at (X:-824 Y:-866), you can loot its treasure.

Now head north and go down the stairs. You'll see a giant locked door. You can lockpick or attack it until it breaks down. Now head to the room located east and interact with the Altar to Shar (X:-807 Y:-816). You can then either pray to the altar or leave. If you choose to pray, you'll need to pass an Intelligence check in Religion with DC 14. If you successfully passed the skill check, you will gain Nightsinger's Favour, you will be resistant to any type of necrotic damage until your next long rest. In the room located west, there's a traveler's chest and a Key on a Skeleton you can loot (X:-839 Y:-813). Now go to the middle and pull the lever on the left side to open the door ahead. As you enter the room, you will find three undead skeletons. As you approach them, the one in the middle asks if you are a friend, a foe, or a thief. Then it will say you're a friend, but you were uninvited as he did not request help. If you don't attack them, they will not turn hostile and even help you during the combat encounter you'll face ahead. After your conversation, a portal opens up next to you and a Justiciar Avenger comes out. You'll then initiate combat after the cutscene. This can be a difficult combat encounter as the Umbral Tremors can keep appearing throughout the battle.

Once you've slain all the Justiciar enemies, go inside the room located west and you'll meet Balthazar (X:-851 Y:-786). Once you interact with him, you will be presented with several dialogue options. If want you are curious to learn more about him, engage in conversation and he will introduce himself as Balthazar, the Chief Advisor to General Thorm. He reveals that he's here because he was entrusted with an important mission to retrieve a certain relic for General Thorm. He also wants to make use of you since you've proven yourself in battle just recently by slaying some Justiciar enemies. You will then be presented with several options, if you choose to persuade him and you successfully pass the skill check, he will assign someone to aid you as you clear the way. He'll offer you the bell that can summon his brother. You will gain Astarion and Shadowheart's approval, as well as the Summon Golem Bell item. This item will summon Balthazar's brother and can only be used in combat while in the Gauntlet of Shar. After your conversation with Balthazar, you will advance the quest Infiltrate Moonrise Towers. Alternatively, if you wish to kill Balthazar here right now, you will achieve the Acolyte: Those for Whom the Bell Tolled if you successfully slay him and his cronies.

Once you exit the room, head north and you'll see a locked Vault Door. You need to lockpick the door with DC 30, successfully opening the door will reveal three Opulent Chests inside. All the chests will contain valuable loot but the most notable loot is inside the chest in the middle, this one has the Scroll of Seeming which is a very rare scroll. It's a single-use item that lets you disguise up to 4 members of your party. Exit the vault and continue heading east, at this location (X:-752 Y:-789) you'll find a waypoint that lets you fast-travel to this location at any time. Now continue heading north and once you reach this location (X:-652 Y:-776), you'll need to pass a perception skill check to reveal the invisible enemies in the area. If you get too close or fail the perception check, you'll immediately engage in combat. Once you've cleared all the enemies within the area, you'll complete the Kill Raphael's Old Enemy quest. We recommend checking the enemies' corpses as you may find some valuable scrolls and weapons, there's an enemy there named Yurgir that has a very rare weapon called the Hellfire Hand Crossbow.

Once you end the day, Raphael will show up. Astarion will then make a remark that Raphael needs to hold his end of the deal as his devil Yurgir has been dispatched. If you want to learn more about Astarion's back story, tell Raphael to stop stalling and he'll reveal the contract that was made by Astarion's former master, Cazador Szarr, with the archdevil Mephistopheles. Once Raphael finishes the story, he will vanish. Astarion will then ask you if you can help him take the fight to Cazador. If you choose to help him, you will gain his approval and he will thank you.

To find the remaining Umbral Gems, you need to complete Sharran Trials. The Soft-step Trial can be found here (X:-761 Y:-755), just northwest of the Gauntlet of Shar Waypoint. You'll see a Bulky Door as its entrance. Go inside and interact with the Sacrificial Bowl, Shadowheart will then interrupt and say this is one of Lady Shar's trials. You can then let her do as she wishes or tell her to stand down. If you choose to let her do as she pleases, you will gain her approval. She then wounds herself and offers her blood on the bowl, the gates will then open after. Now you need to skulk to the end of the maze without being spotted by the shadows and if you are spotted, you'll immediately be transported to where the Sacrificial Bowl is. Using an invisibility spell and turn base mode works well. But be careful of the traps. You need to find Soft-Step Key (on the table of a hidden room) or use lockpick to open the final gate. Alternatively, you can use Dimension Door spell to bypass this trial. Once you've made it inside the gate, retrieve the Umbral Gem to complete the trial. You can then interact with the Umbral Transporter to transport you back to where the Sacrifical Bowl is and exit the room.

Continue heading north and you'll find the Self-Same Trial here (X:-763 Y:-733). This trial forces you to fight a clone of your parties. If you wish to make the combat encounter easier for you, get naked and remove your armor and weapons before you offer your blood to the Sacrificial Bowl. You can just re-equip them before you enter the room. The clone team has the ability to dip in and out of the shadows. For this trial, you would also need to take note of the Cheater's Folly condition, if any member of your party attacks the enemy team that's not their own clone, all their Ability Scores will be reduced by 1 and this effect can stack. So it's recommended that you only attack your own clown if possible so you won't get stacked with debuffs. If you ever get the Cheater's Folly inflicted on one of your party members, simply killing the clone will remove that debuff. Once you've slain the enemy team you can loot the Umbral Gem from the last clone you killed. You will also find a very rare ring called the Killer's Sweetheart. Just like before, you can use the Umbral Transporter to transport you back to where you came from to exit the area.

The last and final trial, the Faith-Leap Trial can be located downstairs (X:-744 Y:-728). For this trial, the room will be plunged into darkness after you offered the blood, and you need to remember the location of the platforms to reach the Umbral Gem. However, you can use the Daylight spell to light the entire room, or use Fly or Dimension Door spell to reach the final platform. Once you reach the final platform, retrieve the Umbral Gem and transport yourself to where you started and exit the area.

Once you've completed the trials, continue heading south and at this location (X:-756 Y:-753) is the Silent Library. You'll notice there's a white barrier at the entrance, you can go through but you will be Silenced and you'll be unable to cast any spells. There will be several Justiciar enemies in the area, if you want to avoid combat, you can try to sneak attack them with ranged attacks. They don't seem to get triggered by getting damaged, which will make this section easier. Once you've slain all the enemies in the area, press the button on the far right corner of the room (X:-778 Y:-751) to unlock the gate to the Treasure Room. Once you enter the room, disarm all of the traps first, then look for the book called Teachings of Loss: The Nightsinger, then interact with the plinth and place the book. After placing the book, the door to Treasure Room will be opened. Inside you'll find the Dark Justiciar Helmet, Dark Justiciar Half-Plate, and the weapon to kill the Nightsong - Spear of Night. Once you retrieve the weapons, loot whatever you can inside and exit the room. While exploring the area, you find lots of Rats. Try talking to them and you can find they are not natural. Use the Cragged Rock between the 2nd and 3rd trials to reach the feet of the giant Shar Statue. Here you can find a Broken Effigy and a book, read the book and talk to the rat to learn his story - another victim of Raphael and the last remaining Dark Justiciar. The rat will also reveal the location of Sharrn Provisions if you agree to spare him. If you want to side with Yurgir, you can kill the rats and the last Justiciar. Doing so can avoid a fight with Yurgir. And later easier to get his help when you sneak into Raphael's House of Hope and confront the archdevil. Yurgir is also a potential ally in Gather Your Allies. But you can still persuade Yurgir to join you even if you killed him here. Alternatively, if you chose to help the Orthon break his contract, you learn more about the trickery of Raphael after killing the rat swarm at this location.

Now make your way back to the Pedestal of Reckoning at this location (X:-717 Y:-776). Interact with the pedestal and you will have a short conversation with Shadowheart. After your conversation, get on top of the platform and interact with the Traversal Gem to reach the Inner Sanctum. Once you've been transported down, interact with the Ancient Altar and place three Umbral Gems you've collected to unlock the door ahead. If anyone in your party has a background of Guild Artisan, they will be inspired and you will also achieve Guild Artisan: Dark Machinations. head down the stairs and you'll discover the Verge of the Shadows waypoint at this location (X:-717 Y:-842). Interact with the Shadowfell Entrance pool to trigger a dialogue with Shadowheart. She says she needs to pray, and tells you that everyone made it this far because of Lady Shar's grace. If you try to peer into her mind while she's praying, she will disapprove of this action. You can gain an approval back from her after she says that Lady Shar only demands one sacrifice and you choose the option "All right. Fine. Let's move on." A prompt will then appear on the screen asking you if you want to proceed, depending on your choices, the state of the region could change and some active quests may become unavailable. If you choose yes, your character will step into the pool, you will be transported to Nightson's Prison.

Once you've been transported to the area, continue heading northwest, you'll need to make multiple jumps to reach the objective area. You don't need to worry about fall damage as the gravity in this plane is adjusted. You'll also notice Justiciar Soulhunters along the way, as long as you don't attack them, they won't turn hostile. Once you reach this location (X:-606 Y:-1435), you'll find Nightsong. If you are able to convince Shadowheart to spare Nightsong, you will gain an approval from Karlach and receive the Moonlight Glaive weapon.

# MOONRISE TOWERS

## Quests
- Infiltrate Moonrise Towers, play along as a loyal soldier to Ketheric Thorm
- Explore the Main Floor
- Explore the First Floor
- Reach the Moonrise Towers Prison
- Kill the Warden
- Free the Prisoners
- Return to Gauntlet of Shar
- Free the Nightsong (Nightsong's Prison)
- Attack Moonrise Towers
- Fight Ketheric Thorm
 

NOTE: There are 2 versions of this walkthrough that will affect the outcome of your relationship with one of the companions. We recommend following the version indicated here, but you may view the alternate version in the Moonrise Towers guide. The first guide will feature infiltrating the Moonrise Towers and playing along as a faithful warrior to The Absolute, only to betray them once you discover that Nightsong is the relic that Ketheric Thorm was referring to. Shadowheart will abandon her duty to Lady Shar by freeing the Nightsong, instead of killing her.

# THE PATH TO MOONRISE TOWERS

In order to reach the Moonrise Towers, you will be traveling in the Shadow Cursed Lands where you will meet different characters of different races. At exactly (X:-156 Y:-97) you will see a bridge with glowing lights coming from the ground underneath. There's also a Waypoint that you can unlock here. Walk towards the bridge where 2 guards will stop you at the foot of the stairs. The other one, named Zealot Malik will recognize you as "True Soul" and will begin to act more friendly towards you. 

Given their friendly nature, it's recommended to avoid combat unless necessary here and thus, choosing the first option will prompt them to give you information on what's going on inside. The other guard, Adept Merim. tells you that Z'rell is waiting in the audience chamber, whom she thinks, will be wanting to hear from you. There are ghouls patrolling on the sides of the entrance but they are not hostile and you can just walk up the stairs to enter the tower.

Interact with the Heavy Oak Doors, and continue to walk towards the center of the tower, where you will be welcomed by Zealot Brinn. You will notice that there's a Scrying Eye roaming in this area, so be careful not to do anything suspicious that will raise their alarms. Explore the Main Floor and go to exactly (X:-128 Y:-193), you will find a trader named Araj Oblodra who will also notice Astarion, and refer to him as a pale companion. She continues to tell you that she trades blood and creates potions out of them. She will brew a potent potion for you and then she will keep the rest. She goes on to tell you that, the potion will be unique to you, one that contains your blood essence and The Absolute's blessing intertwined. 

You find out that she keeps the blood for 'research' and does a little bit of experimentation with it. Next, you can decide if you want to go on with brewing a potion. If you agree, she will extract blood from you, and then as she collects it, she will turn her attention to one of your companions, Astarion to be specific. She mentions that he's a vampire and by this, Astarion responds that he won't bite, as they are all friends under The Absolute. However, Araj Oblodra will respond with, "Oh I prefer if you did." and then asks you a question, "I assume he belongs to you?"

Excuse me? He's his own person.
We travel together- that's all.
He does what I tell him, if that's what you mean.
Yes. All mine.
Choosing the first option here will gain Astarion and Karlach's approvals. Then, Araj will turn her attention to Astarion and she tells him that she has always dreamed of being bitten by a vampire. She offers to give you a potion that will increase your strength permanently if you let Astarion bite her. However, Astarion will refuse her and will instead ask for your help to decide on this matter. You will have 3 options:

He said no. There's nothing more to discuss.
I am surprised, Astarion. I thought you'd jump at a chance like this.
Just bite her- the potion sounds useful.
If you force Astarion to do this, he will disapprove of this, however, you will gain 2 potions. One is unique to your character, during our playthrough, we got the Elixir of Dragonborn Prowess: Fire.  Then, for the other potion, Potion of Everlasting Vigour, which increases your Strength by 2 permanently. You may also interact with Araj Oblodra again, to check her wares. She's also a trader dealing in Moonrise Towers.

# EXPLORING THE MAIN FLOOR OF MOONRISE TOWERS

After you encounter the trader in blood, you can continue to explore the Main Floor of the Moonrise Towers and head to (X:-152 Y:-200) where you will find Ketheric Thorm sitting on his throne and his audience. The lives of Fezzerk and his group are being decided upon by Z'rell. Allow things to unfold before you so Ketheric Thorm will turn his attention to you and will ask for your judgment. Then, tell him to be kind to these soldiers.

If you choose the first one, Ketheric Thorm will disagree, saying that he can't afford more mistakes. He will order the goblins to be killed, but one of the unbelievers, the one unaffected by the parasite, will throw a spear into Thorm's chest, in an attempt to kill him. However, it seems that Thorm is unaffected by this and kills the goblin swiftly. Fezzerk's fate will be handed over to you, and you are free to decide on how you want to deal with them.

If you show mercy on the goblins, Astarion will disapprove of this. Continue to go around the Main Floor of Moonrise Towers and you will find Lann Tarv, who will have a dialogue with Karlach. An old friend of hers, named Flo, wishes to hand over three Soul Coins to her. These soul coins can come in handy, but you also consider that it's dangerous to accept any offers from a Cambion. If you reject this, Karlach will give you a disapproval. After that, you may also check Lann Tarv's wares, who is also a trader. Also, Roah Moonglow, another trader is also stationed here. 

You will come across Mig, a troll who tells you about meat sounds. She suspects that it's as big as the whole tower and can be heard loudest from the kitchen. With this, you head to the Kitchen located at (X:-112 Y:-197). You will find Linsella among gnolls that seem tame enough to listen to her. As you talk to her, you will find out that she was able to control them with the power of The Absolute granted to her, putting the beasts under her control. As she demonstrates her power, the gnoll will try to break free from her. Your character will get an option to intervene or not.

As Linsella tries to demonstrate how she can control the gnoll that she calls Barnabus, he will be free from her control and attacks her as. Now, in the face of a gnoll, use the Persuasion check on it so that the gnoll will not attack you if you are successful. This event called "Pied Piper" will inspire Astarion, where you will successfully influence gnolls, either to break free or continue being subservient. Following the meat sounds that the troll mentioned earlier, you will arrive at (X:-127 Y:-175) You will find some sort of mucus blocking a doorway. Given its current state, your party won't be able to enter and investigate from here. 

# EXPLORING THE FIRST FLOOR

At (X:144 Y:-210), you will find yourselves on a landing that will take you to the First Floor of Moonrise Towers. There's a bigger journey awaiting your party here and the first thing that you will witness here is Z'rell and Radija in a conversation, that no one is allowed to disturb the prayers of Thorm. She will turn her attention to you and ask about how you handled the goblins.

Given that you let the goblins walk free in this walkthrough, she will discover the act that you have done after reading your mind. Redeem yourself by any means without provoking her into a fight and if successful, she will go through again your mind to discover your wants and hopes. This, however, has a bigger reason for why she's doing it, as she's questioning your faith. Choosing any of the checks will require you to pass a DC of 14, when successful, she shares her story of how the Absolute gave her everything she wanted which is freedom.

She gives you a mission and then you hear the voice of the dream visitor inside your head. They urge you to play along so you can get closer to the general, and so you'll be able to find the answers you seek. She tells you that General Thorm needs a relic that is currently located at the mausoleum beneath the tower. She asks you to make contact with Disciple Balthazar and retrieve the relic.

To reach Balthazar's room, you will head to the first floor where you will see Glourik standing watch by the door at (X:-133 Y:-187). With Balthazar's room key, you can explore his room and pick up the Moon Lantern, which you will be needing as you explore the Mausoleum later on. You will notice that there's a locked Metal Door within his room, and attempting to unlock this will require passing a Dexterity check DC of 30. 

Inside the room, you will find an undead hound guarding the area. You can attempt an Animal Handling, Performance, or Intimidation check that will require you to pass a DC of 18. Once successful, you can now freely roam the area without fighting the hound.  There are more chests that you can unlock in this area as well and pick up valuable items such as elixirs and scrolls. 

There's another locked door here, that will lead to a different room. Unlocking this door will require you to pass a DC of 15. Inside this room, you will find more chests to loot and letters to discover. The unique chest can be found at the foot of the bed where it transforms into a Mimic the moment you get near it. When you're done killing it, you can loot its items.


# HEADING TO THE MOONRISE TOWERS PRISON

NOTE: It is important to finish the quests in the Moonrise Towers Prison before attacking Moonrise Towers because you will risk some of the quests becoming unavailable.

When you're done exploring the Main Floor and First Floor, you can now go to the Prison located beneath the tower. You will find a stair leading to this area at (X:-175 Y:-193). Interact with the stairs here and this will take you to the Moonrise Towers Prison. If you still have a good relationship with the cultists or haven't started a fight with them, the guards will let you in without a fight. Make sure to explore each room here if you want to stock up on scrolls and elixirs. You will also find barrels and chests that you can open. As you head into the prison rooms, you will find a Scrying Eye guarding. With this sentinel, you have to make sure not to do anything suspicious while it watches in that area.

You will find the Tiefling Lia standing at the prison cell with who you can engage in a conversation, this however, will be put to a stop by one of the guards watching, forbidding you from speaking to them. Use the Persuasion or Deception check on the guards so that you can freely speak with the prisoners. Attempting the Persuasion check will require you to pass a DC of 14. You can continue talking to Lia and she tells you that the gnomes are up to something and they're working together. Urging you to find these gnomes to talk to them. Continue to go around the cells and you will find Wulbren, who is curious about how you were able to order the guard successfully. He wants to know what is your business with them. You can offer to help him for free or for a fee.

When successful, Wulbren will tell you about his plan which involves looking for tools. He will ask for you to hand them anything that can break rocks and also make sure that no one will see you helping them. He also tells you that the Warden robbed them of their tools, and you can start looking from there. Locating the Tieflings and Wulbren will update the quests for these characters in your journal. 

You will find the Warden in their room at (X:572 Y:-655), and ask her questions about confiscated items to reveal that she is hiding these in the office above. You may also attempt the Intelligence check which will require you to pass a DC of 13, this will reveal that levers behind her desk can open the doors of the cells, and the larger lever is used to trigger the alarm.

With her back turned against you, you can sneak to go up the ladder. However, there is a Scrying Eye in this area so it's not advisable to steal the tools under its watchful eyes. The moment you get spotted, she will confront you to explain yourself or the other option is to fight The Warden since this area is unseen from the area outside. Make sure to destroy the Scrying Eye in this area so that the others will not be alerted. After this, you can now search the office where items are being stored. Make sure to loot the Warden's body to retrieve the Spellcrux Amulet and the Moonrise Guard's Key from her. 

The chests above are locked but you can unlock them by doing a Dexterity check which requires you to pass a DC of 14-16, which varies on the difficulty of the chests. With The Warden gone, you can free the tieflings and Wulbreg by interacting with the levers behind the desk. However, there are still guards nearby so this will commence a battle between them and your party. It is best to take care of the nearby guards before handing them the tools so that they can escape through the tunnels.

Follow them through the tunnels by using the walls that they have broken through. You will find a boat docked at (X:572 Y:-577) and their party will take their leave. This will complete your quests Rescue Wulbren and Rescue the Tieflings. Now that the prisoners have escaped Moonrise Towers, you can continue investigating the prison. You will find traces of the red mucus that you found in the kitchen at (X:507 Y:-617), there is a cragged rock that you can interact with that will take you to the Oubliette.

This event of reaching the bottom will inspire Karlach on Delving into the Deep. Hook Horrors are roaming about in this area and these monsters are immediately hostile as soon as they see you. There's not much to do here but continue on the quest given by Z'rell, which is to aid Balthazar in looking for the relic. You will see some enemies gathered at a lower level of Oubliette, but this area is still blocked and you will need to go back up to the towers and look for another entrance.

 

# TO GAUNTLET OF SHAR

NOTE:  This is our recommended guide that will lead Shadowheart to forsake her duty to Lady Shar and free Nightsong from her prison. Visit Moonrise Towers to see the alternate guide.

In order to defeat Ketheric Thorm, you now realize that there's a power that makes him invulnerable. Your investigation will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar where you will continue to aid Balthazar at the request of Disciple Z'rell. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get your desired outcome. 

As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. You will now get the following options to respond:

I was hoping for something more substantial than 'thanks'.
How did you get here?
What is this place?
I cleared the way to this place, not you. Why shouldn't I just kill you instead of letting you interfere?
Lead on, then.
Attack.
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight even if you choose the 4th one. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. You will now get the following options to respond:

Wait- the Nightsong is a person?
What are you going to do to her?
I can't let you take her, Balthazar.
Attack him.
If you choose the first one, Balthazar tells you that she is more than that. He shares that she possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.
If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.

Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.
 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.
Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.
Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.
If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 

Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 
If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her. Freeing the Nightsong will grant you Selune's blessing and a Moonlight Glaive. As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin. Afterward, you now get the option to respond to Shadowheart as you please if you want to progress your romance with her. 

 

RETURN AND INFILTRATE MOONRISE TOWERS

With Dame Aylin leading the fight against Ketheric Thorm's army, she will fly across the Shadow Cursed Lands and make her way to Moonrise Towers. As for your party, your travel will begin at the bridge of Moonrise Towers where Jaheira awaits at the foot of the stairs. She tells you that she is the last one standing, and asks if you will take the final steps together, with her.

If you choose to have Jaheira on your side, Karlach will give you her approval. You will be leading the assault on Moonrise Towers and you will find Thorm's army waiting for you at the Main Floor. You will battle Disciple Z'rell, Barnabus, and the others. Make sure to plan ahead so you come out victorious in this battle. You will have temporary companions in this area, like Jaheira, and you can take full control of her temporarily.

After clearing the Main Floor, Jaheira offers to stay behind as you go up the tower with your party and assist Dame Aylin. She wants to make sure that no one will be able to cross and assist the battle against Thorm. She tells you that the final audience with Ketheric Thorm awaits you. There are still enemies awaiting on the First Floor that you must defeat on your way to reach Thorm. Fight the disciples and eliminate them to find Thorm. 

As you open the Ornate Door, this will lead you to Moonrise Towers Rooftop, where a weakened Ketheric Thorm stands before you. He demands to know what you have done to him and you can try to reason, persuade, or intimidate Ketheric Thorm. If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 10. Balthazar responds that there is no redemption for him. He acknowledges that he has died a long time ago and he only intends to bring Isobel back. After this, you get another set of options to understand how Ketheric Thorm came to be.

Thorm will refuse to believe that he can still redeem himself because the Moonmaiden failed to intervene when his life was dismantled. He acknowledges that a true soul like you has defeated him, but the gods beat him first. Offering to help Ketheric or by choosing the first option will get Karlach's approval but Aylin will interrupt your conversation and demands that Thorm fight. You can try to tell Aylin that he has surrendered, but Aylin refuses to believe your word and will continue the battle against him. Thorm now realizes that he needs to use his power that can't be hidden anymore.  He offers you one last chance to bow, or he will destroy both you and Dame Aylin. 

He commands you to bow but it will be revealed that you have The Prism with you. This angers Ketheric Thorm and the battle will now begin against Ketheric Thorm. Your party will raise their weapons against Thorm and what's left of his army on the rooftop. There's still quite a handful of them here and they are surrounding the area. Make sure to plan accordingly and focus on defeating Thorm first. Once you get Thorm's HP to 0, he will not be downed, but instead, he stands up once more and tells you that his Lord beckons him. Dame Aylin will fly away and swoop down as if ready to end it all, however, Thorm has been keeping his trump card all this time. 

A colossal tentacle swings upwards from the foot of the tower and attacks Dame Aylin, she vanishes right before your eyes together with Thorm who was able to escape his fate, for now. There are still enemies left behind by Thorm, make sure to eliminate them to focus on the task at hand. When you're done fighting, make sure to search the chest atop the throne where Ketheric Thorm was seated. You will find Jaheira has followed you to the rooftop.  She tells you that she fears that the Nightsong has been captured again and that their next step is to follow it beneath the tower to find them. You will get the following options to respond:

Don't you want to see how this ends?
I can handle this- don't worry. 
For the next dialogue, you will get an option if you want Jaheira to follow you in battle. If not, she will stay behind and be on guard with her harpers. After Thorm's escape, the one way to reach them is to drop down the chasm created by the colossal tentacle. You can camp just before you begin the next battle so you can replenish your health and spell slots of your party.

# MIND FLAYER COLONY

## Quests
- Jump down the Hollow Tower
- Free Us
- Explore Necrotic Laboratory and get Resonance Stone
- Solve the Mind Flayer Colony Puzzle
- Help Zevlor
- Free Mizora
- Defeat Ketheric Thorm
NOTE: This walkthrough will feature an alternate version wherein one of your companions, Gale, gets an opportunity to end the control of the absolute as part of The Wizard of Waterdeep quest. When he gets close enough to the elder brain, he can cause himself to explode killing everything else around him. We recommend following our initial guide here but we will still indicate the alternate version below.

Once your party has rested, you can now interact with the Hollow Tower. Once you do so, you will get a prompt that will ask you if you will leap after Ketheric Thorm and the tentacle that drew him underground with the Nightsong. If you agree, your character will look down on the chasm as Shadowheart asks if you intend to jump down. Seemingly as if your character didn't hear anything, you will jump down the chasm and upon reaching the ground, you see the walls around you are covered with the same red mucus that you found inside the tower, from where the suspicious sounds came from. The mucus is far thicker indicating that you are closer to the source. 

You and your party have finally reached the Mind Flayer Colony and your Dream Visitor speaks to you that you are closer to the source of the parasites, the ones that were used to infect your party. Interact with the membrane that's blocking the path to destroy it and reveal new sub-areas. These membranes are surfaces that your character can interact with. The dream visitor continues to speak again to remind you to be careful as you get closer to the source.

You will find Intellect Devourers in this area but they are not immediately hostile. You will find them roaming around and seem to be running away from you. Follow the passage down to your right to reach a Flesh-Wrought Door that will reveal the Morgue sub-area. You will see rotting bodies and cages dumped nearly anywhere and if you were able to reach Oubliette while you were exploring Moonrise Towers Prison, this was the area that can be seen from the central part.

On your right, you will find a brain that is contained inside it, if you did not destroy the brain in the Nautiloid Ship, they will show up here in the Morgue sub-area. They will ask for your help to have them freed because it claims that they are not like the others and that they will be destroyed. If you save them, they can accompany you in battle in the form of a summon. To reply, you will get the following options:

I'll free you.
Let me think about it.
Not my concern.
There's also a console in the center of this area. When you interact with it, a corpse will fall through the hatch. Chop speaks out, that those are offering from Moonrise Towers. Next, you can speak with Chop, a creature with a hollow mind that has been enslaved by The Absolute. It seems that it is following orders but can't think much on its own. You will now get a chance to choose how to interact with Chop:

[ILLITHID] Enter his thoughts.
What is this place?
What did you do to all these people?
About that creature in the cage...
I need to find your master- Ketheric.
Leave.
You find out that Chop has been harvesting the brains of their captives, while The Absolute turns them into Intellect Devourers and eventually, they will become a part of the hivemind. It also tells you that the brain inside the cage is different from the others, and needs to be fixed. Now you'll get the option if you want to free it or let him do his work:

What's wrong with it?
[ILLITHID] Let it come with me. We sing the same song.
[PERSUASION] I'll take the creature with me. It won't disrupt the hivemind anymore.
[INTIMIDATION] Free the creature or I'll kill you and every one of your creations.
Do as you will with it.
If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 14. When you are successful, he will hand you the key to free it. Upon successfully freeing the brain, you will receive an item: "Summon Us", they tell you that they will remain with you until you call out to them. Continue looking around this area, and you will find helms on the table. Check your party's equipment and see if any of the items are fit for them.

Your next destination is the Necrotic Laboratory which you will find at (X:715 Y:-49), before entering this area, your party must be prepared for a battle against a horde of enemies. You will find Zombies, Winged Horrors, and a Death Shepherd commanding them. When you are done fighting them, you will have a pile of bodies to loot from. The area that they were standing from shows Profane Womb that can be attacked and destroyed. Behind the ritual zone, there is a secluded space behind it.

Jump over the ledge towards (X:695 Y:-110) to find Resonance Stone on the table. Next to the table, there's a Slack-Skinned Head that speaks in incomplete sentences that seems to be lending the voice to the elder lore. Next, go to the other side of the laboratory where you can locate another console. This one is in desperate need. You will get an option if you want to help this console or not. If you do, you can get a weapon from this and understand the Grand Design built by the Illithids.

The Mind Flayer Colony Puzzle consists of four nodes to match the other end. Follow this order to complete the puzzle:

Emotion: The yellow node will connect from the outer left edge to reach the final Emotion Node on the other end.
Speech: The blue node will connect from the top, then go right, then forward to reach the Speech Node on the other end.
Memory: The green node begins from the right, then through the middle, and then back towards the left to reach the Memory node.
Reason: The pink node will connect the remaining nodes, all the way through to the other end. 
You can now walk to the stony statue at the back of the puzzle where a voice will finally speak. The Desecrated Relief tells you about The Grand Design and the words: order, perfection, and unity.  The Dream Visitor speaks to you again to tell you that the Grand Design is the restoration of the Mind Flayer empire, the dream of all Illithids. After this cutscene, look around in the ground and you will find the Blade of Oppressed Souls right next to the opening of the statue.

Continue exploring the path on your map and follow the guide to the 'Suspicious Sounds' that is highlighted in a yellow ring. At exactly (X:686 and Y:-13), you will see another Flesh-Wrought Door. This door will lead you to the Tadpoling Centre where you will find similar pods that were used to capture you in the Nautiloid ship.

You can interact with each of the consoles to find out about the prisoners that they once held. There's a Neural Apparatus next to it that you can interact with. You find out that there are Illithids, and the not yet infected ones that are desperate for release. It is your choice if you want to release or purge these creatures, together with the non-infected ones or let them be. 

If you choose to release them, Karlach will give you her approval, while Astarion will give his disapproval. Zevlor is inside one of the pods but freeing them means you will have to fight against the Mind Flayers that will be freed together with the rest of the prisoners. By doing so, the Intellect Devourer will also become hostile at the command of the Illithids. Defeat the enemies here and speak with Zevlor after. He is eager to find out what had become of his people, and you can respond to him with one of the following options:

You abandoned them. Do you really think you have the right to ask?
Some. Others ended up in a cell in Moonrise. That's on you.
They found refuge but what the hells happened out there, Zevlor?
I can't tell you. 
If you choose the third option, he tells you that they were ambushed by the cultists and that he has heard a voice of a woman who whispered promises in his mind. He realized that he was put under a charm, and it was too late for the ones that he was supposed to be protecting. He surrendered and even welcomed the Absolute, he said.

If you wanted power, you never needed a god- only to live up to your ideal.
'For a moment'- until you realized your reward would be a tadpole.
It sounds like you were being enthralled. It's not your fault.
Your people didn't need a paladin- they saved themselves. 
After this, he is aware of the battle that lies ahead and will offer his help. He tells you that Ketheric is below and that he intends to look for other survivors and lead them out of the area. Now it's up to you if you want Zevlor to fight with you or save his people:

I could use another blade in the fight to come.
Find your own people. They need you.
I don't care what you do- just get out of my sight.
Fine. Good luck, Zevlor.
Continue exploring the yellow ring, and you will find Mizora at (X:682 Y:37) in front of Brine Pools. She speaks out loud that there are no more tadpoles and that it is an indicator that they are planning something big. She had been captured by the Illithids and you have gained an opportunity to free Wyll from his pact with her.

[INTIMIDATION] Free Wyll, or I let the cult infect you. I bet you'd make a loyal thrall.
[HISTORY] Remember all you can about devils and their contracts. 
[PERFORMANCE] Say you know a pact-breaking charm and chant a series of pseudo-Infernal phrases.
Poor thing. I'll let you out of there.
Fine. Let's get on with it.
If you attempt the History check, you will need to pass a DC of 16. Then you will remember a chant that is used to void a devil's contract. You will now get the next choices:

'Abi diabole, et nunquam redi.'
[HISTORY] Remember all you can about devils and their contracts. 
[PERFORMANCE] Say you know a pact-breaking charm and chant a series of pseudo-Infernal phrases.
Poor thing. I'll let you out of there.
Fine. Let's get on with it.
Mizora will laugh at you and she will agree to free Wyll, but only after she's free from the pod. Now you will turn your attention to the controls next to Mizora's pod. The key here is the Right Device will free Mizora, while the Left Device will kill her. Note that Wyll's soul is still bound to her, so if Mizora dies, so does Wyll.

[STRENGTH[ Gather your strength and smash your foot through the pod.
Examine the device on the left.
Examine the device on the right.
Leave her there.
If you choose to free Mizora, she reveals that she will only release Wyll's soul after six months and calls you an Ignorang thing.

To the Hells with your conditions. Sever Wyll's pact now, or I'll sever your head.
A full half of a year? You've got to e kidding.
Shrug. Six months isn't that long of a wait.
That warlock of yours is turning out to be more trouble than he's worth. 
Mizora will now leave this area and you can continue exploring the Mind Flayer Colony at exactly (X:704 Y:24) you will find another Flesh-Wrought Door that will lead you into the Barracks. You will find a Kressa Bonedaughter in this area who suspects that you are part of the attackers. You can attempt the Deception check here, which requires you to pass a DC of  21, or simply attack her. 

We recommend using the Deception check first, and if that works, you can have one of your party do a sneak attack on her. The rest of the enemies will see what you have done, and you will have fewer enemies to fight. All that's left now is to eliminate Bonefighter, Maghtew Badj, and Hairy Henry. Continue the path behind this section and you will find a Restoration that looks like a mushroom. Interact with it to replenish your health. 


# DEFEAT KETHERIC THORM

In the distance below, you will see a grand area that is separated from the Mind Flayer Colony which seems to be like a grand stage. There's a Neural Apparatus that serves as a lift that will take you to the bottom of the Mind Flayer Colony. Your party is moving closer to Ketheric Thorm and you can sense the Nautiloids stronger down here. At (X:812 Y:-25), you will find another Flesh-Wrought Door, as you interact with it, the Dream Visitor will speak to you, that you have found the location of The Absolute. If you are ready to take the fight, choose Ready, or if you need some time to prepare, go to Campsite and rest. 

You will see 3 people engaged in a conversation: Gortash, Orin, and Thorm. They are planning on taking back the Prism from you while they held the Nightsong captive. You hear them that they will proceed with their plans, and expect Ketheric with his army and weapon. All three of them command The Absolute and the colossal elder brain floats from the water below. 

They have infected Duke Ravengard with a tadpole and they leave at once to lead the march into the Baldur's Gate while leaving Ketheric behind. You will find Ketheric at the edge of the Chasm, proclaiming his worship for his Lord, and he will fall to it as Myrkul will rise from below. Apostle of Myrkul introduces himself as the Lord of Bones and you will now be fighting him. Remember that Ketheric remains invulnerable as long as he has the Nightsong captured. Your initial goal is to free Nightsong with the Help action, as she is trapped inside a soul cage by Ketheric.

When you bring his HP to 0, Ketheric refuses to die and he returns to deliver his speech and ask for his Master's help. He realizes that there is nothing but silence and that he has been forsaken. He calls out to Isobel before he dies and Dame Aylin swoops down to crush his head repeatedly as the rest of your party watches in horror. With Ketheric gone, you will retrieve Netherstone from him, the one they use to control the elder brain.

With that, The Dream Visitor comes to tell you what has happened. It's the three who were controlling the Elder Brain against its will, or what they call The Absolute. They continue to explain that the Netherstones are what's used to control the elder brain. In order to gain full control, you must collect the remaining Netherstones from Orin and Gortash. They continue to reveal that The Absolute is a front of the Dead Three called Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul. Each of them has their own Chosen to take part in this attack on Baldur's Gate 3. You will now have these options to ask them:

What do we do now?
What hope do we have if the gods themselves are involved?
I didn't come here to fight gods- I just want my parasite removed. 
If you choose the first one, they will tell you to prepare for the fight of your lives, to save the lives of everyone in Faerun. They tell you that the Army of the Absolute is marching towards Baldur's Gate and that the elder brain has the power to turn everyone into Mind Flayers. They tell you that you need to seize control of the elder brain and they will offer to be your shield but asks that you must be the sword. 

# THE ALTERNATE ENDING - GALE

NOTE: This is the alternate version of this walkthrough with the help of Gale, who will detonate the bomb to destroy the elder brain and those around him. Following this guide will complete The Wizard of Waterdeep quest in Baldur's Gate 3. A requirement for this is to have Gale as one of your companions upon entering the room in the deepest level of Mind Flayer Colony.

 As your party descends deeper into the Mind Flayer Colony, your party will stop at a Flesh-Wrought Door. Just as you open the door, the Dream Visitor speaks to you again that you have found the root of it all. As you and your party prepare for a fight, you sneak inside and see 3 figures in the middle of a conversation. 

As the Dream Visitor speaks about the Elder Brain being the cruelest and most powerful creature in existence, Gale, who is standing behind you is in awe of so much power before him and how he wishes to hold it. However, he stops himself and says that he can't and must obey as his goddess commands. You, as the main character will hear this and will be prompted with two options:

Gale, you cannot do this. You can't condemn us to death.
Go ahead. We stand no chance against such forces. Let's end this together.
If you choose the second option, he will then respond to you, "One last gust of Weave. One last gale to end them all". The Dream Visitor will disagree but Gale unleashes the bomb within him, the one that he's been keeping in check ever since your journey together began. The smoke begins to rise up from beneath the Moonrise Towers where the elder brain was destroyed.

The bomb took everything within its powerful radius, however, the remaining tadpoles that had survived will now consume the minds of their host and complete their transformations, now that the control of the Absolute is gone. Soon, Illithids will plague the lands and enslave all those they do not infect. The narrator continues, "It is an ending of sorts. Though not the one destiny had in store for you."