# THE ALTERNATE ENDING - GALE

NOTE: This is the alternate version of this walkthrough with the help of Gale, who will detonate the bomb to destroy the elder brain and those around him. Following this guide will complete The Wizard of Waterdeep quest in Baldur's Gate 3. A requirement for this is to have Gale as one of your companions upon entering the room in the deepest level of Mind Flayer Colony.

 As your party descends deeper into the Mind Flayer Colony, your party will stop at a Flesh-Wrought Door. Just as you open the door, the Dream Visitor speaks to you again that you have found the root of it all. As you and your party prepare for a fight, you sneak inside and see 3 figures in the middle of a conversation. 

As the Dream Visitor speaks about the Elder Brain being the cruelest and most powerful creature in existence, Gale, who is standing behind you is in awe of so much power before him and how he wishes to hold it. However, he stops himself and says that he can't and must obey as his goddess commands. You, as the main character will hear this and will be prompted with two options:

Gale, you cannot do this. You can't condemn us to death.
Go ahead. We stand no chance against such forces. Let's end this together.
If you choose the second option, he will then respond to you, "One last gust of Weave. One last gale to end them all". The Dream Visitor will disagree but Gale unleashes the bomb within him, the one that he's been keeping in check ever since your journey together began. The smoke begins to rise up from beneath the Moonrise Towers where the elder brain was destroyed.

The bomb took everything within its powerful radius, however, the remaining tadpoles that had survived will now consume the minds of their host and complete their transformations, now that the control of the Absolute is gone. Soon, Illithids will plague the lands and enslave all those they do not infect. The narrator continues, "It is an ending of sorts. Though not the one destiny had in store for you."