



























Sign In

Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes
Sign Out

Guest










Toggle navigation















Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 

General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 

Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 

Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 

World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 

Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 








 VIP

 Guest



 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes








Join VIP to remove all ads and videos














Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide





























Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor



















Contributions to Fextralife Wikis are licensed under a Custom License.

Wiki Home
Gaming Wikis
Gaming Forum
Fextralife Home
Privacy Policy
 Terms of Use
 Copyright Policy
 Advertise on Fextralife



advertisement



Chat 

⇈ ⇈




Recent Changes +
New page +
File Manager +
Members +
Page Manager +
Settings +
Create Wiki +








⇈ Back to top ⇈































Sign In

Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes
Sign Out

Guest










Toggle navigation















Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 

General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 

Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 

Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 

World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 

Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 








 VIP

 Guest



 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes








Join VIP to remove all ads and videos














Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide





























Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor



















Contributions to Fextralife Wikis are licensed under a Custom License.

Wiki Home
Gaming Wikis
Gaming Forum
Fextralife Home
Privacy Policy
 Terms of Use
 Copyright Policy
 Advertise on Fextralife



advertisement





















Sign In

Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes
Sign Out

Guest





















Sign In

Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes
Sign Out

Guest



Sign In

Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes
Sign Out

Guest

Sign In

Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes
Sign Out
* Wiki Help

* Contact

* White Theme

* Dark Theme

* 

* Recent Changes

Guest





Toggle navigation















Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 

General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 

Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 

Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 

World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 

Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 








 VIP

 Guest



 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes








Join VIP to remove all ads and videos














Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide





























Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor



















Toggle navigation















Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 

General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 

Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 

Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 

World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 

Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 








 VIP

 Guest



 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes








Join VIP to remove all ads and videos














Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide





























Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor













Toggle navigation















Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 

General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 

Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 

Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 

World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 

Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 








 VIP

 Guest



 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes





Toggle navigation





















Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 

General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 

Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 

Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 

World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 

Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 








 VIP

 Guest



 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes


* Wiki Home

Wiki Home
 Wiki Forums 
 Wiki To-Do 
 Fextralife Blog 
 Fextralife Wiki Hub 


* Wiki Home

*  Wiki Forums 

*  Wiki To-Do 

*  Fextralife Blog 

*  Fextralife Wiki Hub 

* General Information

General Information
 Early Access 
 Controls 
 Multiplayer 
 Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 
 Combat 
 FAQs 


* General Information

*  Early Access 

*  Controls 

*  Multiplayer 

*  Patch Notes

 Patch 9 
 

*  Patch 9 

*  Combat 

*  FAQs 

* Character Information

Character Information
 Character Creation 
 Origins 
 Races 
 Classes 
 Companions

 Hirelings 
 
 Builds 
 Abilities 
 Illithid Powers 
  Traits and Features 
  Proficiency 
  Skills 
 Backgrounds 
  Feats 
 Actions 
  Status Effects 


* Character Information

*  Character Creation 

*  Origins 

*  Races 

*  Classes 

*  Companions

 Hirelings 
 

*  Hirelings 

*  Builds 

*  Abilities 

*  Illithid Powers 

*   Traits and Features 

*   Proficiency 

*   Skills 

*  Backgrounds 

*   Feats 

*  Actions 

*   Status Effects 

* Equipment & Crafting

Equipment & Crafting
 Crafting

 Forged Items 
 
 Armor 
 Weapons 
 Accessories 
 Musical Instruments 
 Spells 
 Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 
 Equipment Features 


* Equipment & Crafting

*  Crafting

 Forged Items 
 

*  Forged Items 

*  Armor 

*  Weapons 

*  Accessories 

*  Musical Instruments 

*  Spells 

*  Items

  Potions 
  Scrolls 
  Quest Items 
  Food 
 Tools 
 

*   Potions 

*   Scrolls 

*   Quest Items 

*   Food 

*  Tools 

*  Equipment Features 

* World Information

World Information
 Interactive Map 
  Companions 
 Approval 
 Quests 
 Locations

 Maps 
 
 Enemies

 Bosses 
 
 NPCs 
  Merchants 
 Lore 
  Camp 


* World Information

*  Interactive Map 

*   Companions 

*  Approval 

*  Quests 

*  Locations

 Maps 
 

*  Maps 

*  Enemies

 Bosses 
 

*  Bosses 

*  NPCs 

*   Merchants 

*  Lore 

*   Camp 

* Guides & Walkthroughs

Guides & Walkthroughs
 New Player Help 
 Walkthrough 
 Game Progress Route 
 Build Guides 
 Endings Guide 
 Romance Guide 
 Mods 
 Trophy & Achievement Guide 


* Guides & Walkthroughs

*  New Player Help 

*  Walkthrough 

*  Game Progress Route 

*  Build Guides 

*  Endings Guide 

*  Romance Guide 

*  Mods 

*  Trophy & Achievement Guide 







*  VIP

* 
 Guest



* 
 Help
Wiki HelpContactWhite ThemeDark ThemeRecent Changes


* Wiki Help

* Contact

* White Theme

* Dark Theme

* 

* Recent Changes




Join VIP to remove all ads and videos














Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide

























Join VIP to remove all ads and videos
Join VIP to remove all ads and videosJoin VIP to remove all ads and videos














Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide


































Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide



















* 
Wiki Home



Wiki Forums



Wiki To-Do



Fextralife Blog



Fextralife Wiki Hub




* 
Wiki Forums



* 
Wiki To-Do



* 
Fextralife Blog



* 
Fextralife Wiki Hub


* 
General Information


Early Access

Controls


Multiplayer



Patch Notes

Patch 9





Combat



FAQs




* 
Early Access


* 
Controls



* 
Multiplayer



* 
Patch Notes

Patch 9





* 
Patch 9


* 
Combat



* 
FAQs


* 
Character Information


Character Creation


Origins


Races



Classes


Companions

Hirelings



Builds


Abilities

Illithid Powers


Traits and Features


Proficiency


Skills

Backgrounds


Feats

Actions


Status Effects




* 
Character Creation



* 
Origins


* 
Races



* 
Classes



* 
Companions

Hirelings




* 
Hirelings


* 
Builds


* 
Abilities


* 
Illithid Powers


* 

Traits and Features


* 

Proficiency


* 

Skills


* 
Backgrounds


* 

Feats


* 
Actions


* 

Status Effects


* 
Equipment & Crafting


Crafting


Forged Items






Armor



Weapons



Accessories


Musical Instruments


Spells



Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools



Equipment Features




* 
Crafting


Forged Items






* 
Forged Items



* 
Armor



* 
Weapons



* 
Accessories



* 
Musical Instruments


* 
Spells



* 
Items



Potions


Scrolls


Quest Items


Food


Tools




* 

Potions


* 

Scrolls


* 

Quest Items


* 

Food


* 
Tools


* 
Equipment Features


* 
World Information


Interactive Map


Companions

Approval


Quests


Locations


Maps






Enemies


Bosses





NPCs



Merchants


Lore


Camp




* 
Interactive Map


* 

Companions


* 
Approval



* 
Quests



* 
Locations


Maps






* 
Maps



* 
Enemies


Bosses





* 
Bosses


* 
NPCs



* 

Merchants


* 
Lore


* 

Camp


* 
Guides & Walkthroughs


New Player Help



Walkthrough


Game Progress Route


Build Guides


Endings Guide

Romance Guide

Mods



Trophy & Achievement Guide




* 
New Player Help



* 
Walkthrough



* 
Game Progress Route


* 
Build Guides



* 
Endings Guide


* 
Romance Guide


* 
Mods



* 
Trophy & Achievement Guide































Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor













Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor











Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor









Search Results










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor







Search Results









Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor










Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41












 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more








 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor








Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete







World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41




Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete






Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete



# 
Shadowheart | Baldurs Gate 3 Wiki




 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete



 Edit
 151
 163
…

 Create new page
 Edit
 History
 Recent Changes
 Rename
 Redirect
 Lock
 Unlock

 Permissions
 Javascript
 Tags
 Edit Open Graph

 Clear page cache
 Clear comments cache

 File Manager
 Page Manager
 Wiki Templates
 Comments Approval
 Wiki Settings
 Wiki Manager

 Delete

*  Create new page

*  Edit

*  History

*  Recent Changes

*  Rename

*  Redirect

*  Lock

*  Unlock

* 

*  Permissions

*  Javascript

*  Tags

*  Edit Open Graph

* 

*  Clear page cache

*  Clear comments cache

* 

*  File Manager

*  Page Manager

*  Wiki Templates

*  Comments Approval

*  Wiki Settings

*  Wiki Manager

* 

*  Delete



World Information / Companions
  +
Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41

World Information / Companions
  +
World Information / Companions
  +  +Updated: 17 Sep 2023 05:41








 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll










Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more









 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart





Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.
 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.
 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



 
 
Shadowheart Video Guide



      
  


 
BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough
To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

Daughter of Darkness
Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 
WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
 
BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart
In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.
Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 
As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I
Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.
You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II
Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.
 
BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III
As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.
 
Shadowheart Approval Guide
If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.

General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.


 
Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances
Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.
 


   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

 

APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.



APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get


 
Shadowheart Inspiration Guide
All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:
CHAPTER ONE

Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)
Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)
Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)
Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)
What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)
Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)
Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)
Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)
The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)
Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)
Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)
Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 
Shadowheart Endings Guide


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


 
 


SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



 
Shadowheart Tips and Notes
Intelligent Cleric of Shar/Loviatar/Selune Build
This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

Warped Headband of Intellect
The Oak Father's Embrace
Hellrider's Pride
Boots of Speed
Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge
Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise
Any Light Crossbow +1

 




Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll









 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart








 Shadowheart 





STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA


13
13
14
10
17
8


Class
 Cleric (Trickery Domain - Shar)


Race
High Half-Elf


Background
Acolyte


Initiative
+1


Movement Speed
9m


Darkvision Range
12m


Type
Humanoid


Size
Medium


Weight
75kg


Carrying Capacity
170kg


TAGS


Baldurian, High Half-Elf, Half-Elf, Humanoid, Shadowheart



## Shadowheart

Shadowheart is a Companion in Baldur's Gate 3. BG3 Shadowheart can be rescued during the Nautiloid segment in Act 1, or found by the locked crypt door on the beach after crashing. Shadowheart is a Half-Elf and a Trickery Domain Cleric, which gives your party heals, buffs and interesting stealth and deception spells. Companions assist the player by joining their party and have their own backstories and unique characteristics. They all have their own Classes and starting equipment, but you can change their classes via Respec in camp. Companions can also be selected as an Origin in the Character Creation screen allowing players to play from their point of view.

 A loyal cleric of Shar, Shadowheart is the sole survivor of a holy mission undertaken on the Mistress of the Night's behest. She alone must deliver a relic of immense power to her coven in Baldur's Gate, while threatened by a strange new magic that is burgeoning from within.

 

One of Shar's dark disciples, Shadowheart was sent on a suicide mission to steal an item of great power. While wrestling with her faith and strange, untamed magic, Shadowheart has enemies on all sides - and a long-buried secret to uncover.



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine



Where to find Shadowheart in BG3
Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.
If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.
 
### Where to find Shadowheart in BG3

Shadowheart can be freed from a pod during the prologue (Patch 5 and later) while you are aboard the Nautiloid. The pod can be unlocked by finding and placing a particular rune in the console nearby. Certain classes may have the option to bypass the need for the rune. She will then offer to accompany you to the helm. Once you exit the Nautiloid, you will find her unconscious on the Ravaged Beach nearby. She will thank you for freeing her earlier, and offer to join your party.

If Shadowheart is not freed from her pod on the Nautiloid, then she can be found at the entrance of the Dank Crypt (Abandoned Ruins) at the northern end of the Ravaged Beach, where she will offer to join your party.

 


Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

Circlet
Chain Shirt
Leather Boots
Mace
Studded Shield
Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)
Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)
Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 
### Shadowheart's Starting Equipment

* Circlet

* Chain Shirt

* Leather Boots

* Mace

* Studded Shield

* Shadowheart's Clothes (cosmetic)

* Tasteful Boots (cosmetic)

* Shadowheart's Underwear (cosmetic)

 


Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

History
Religion
Insight
Medicine

### Shadowheart's Starting Skill Proficiencies

* History

* Religion

* Insight

* Medicine

 

 

### Shadowheart Video Guide




      
  



      
  

      
   

### BG3 Shadowheart Quest Walkthrough

To complete Shadowheart's Questline, you must first meet her, either in the Nautiloid or the Ravaged Beach. If you do not recruit her on the Ravaged Beach (whether you freed her or not), she will be found in the Druid's Grove, where she will be sitting on a rock near the training area in the Hollow. She will offer again to join your party, but if Lae'zel is present, convincing her will require a successful Persuasion check. This will begin the quest:

* Daughter of Darkness

* Note: After you've acquired the Speak with Dead spell, you can go return to the Ravaged Beach and talk to the dead fishermen to learn more about Shadowheart.

 

WARNING MASSIVE SPOILERS PAST THIS POINT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED

 

### BG3 How to Romance Shadowheart

In this Shadowheart Romance Guide, we explore the general path toward gaining Shadoweart's approval and what opportunities you have to share some moments with her. This will be updated as more is revealed throughout the game. Gaining Shadowheart's approval centers around respecting her privacy and boundaries, as she values secrets and rewards curiosity. Although she may not openly show it, she appreciates actions that benefit others and actions motivated by self-interest. Being a member of the Trickery Domain, she admires the use of wit and cunning to resolve situations and approves of the player engaging in such actions, rather than brute force.

Additionally, her mastery over secrecy, stealth, and deceit leads her to favor players who exhibit similar skills. Any time the player passes skill checks in persuasion, deceit, religion, or insight, they will also impress Shadowheart and boost her approval of the player. Players should avoid engaging in unnecessary cruelty, as she strongly detests such actions. Being needlessly cruel is a surefire way to lower her approval, although she may be open to certain morally ambiguous actions if they can be justified. Additionally, following Lae'zel's suggestions or prioritizing her opinions and suggestions over Shadowheart's will also lead to disapproval. In general, you'll have to embrace Shadowheart for who she is, regardless of how people fear her or shy away from her, and be patient about her opening up to you. 

As with all the Companions, whenever you can talk to Shadowheart, always scour the dialogue options for any new options, again still following the general guidelines above, where she'll slowly open up to you about things that will help you deepen your bond with her further and further. These can be things like places that she likes to visit, and gifts that you could give her, like the night orchid which is her flower of choice and can be found in the Shadow-Cursed Lands. Anything you find out about might also appear in dialogue choices during intimate moments, which will allow you easier choices if you're afraid to mess up.

 

### BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act I

Your relationship with Shadowheart can officially begin during Act I even before the Quest Save the Refugees, unlike how it was in Early Access. Keeping the general guidelines above in mind and eventually getting her approval up, players may approach her at the camp for a talk. At this point, your approval rating with her should be High so try to explore and do a lot of other things before tackling the Quest for more chances to get your approval up, if it's still lacking at this point.

You're on the right track with Shadowheart, if you can choose the dialogue option where your character says, "I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect." when they talk to her. This can be hard to catch as the option is just lumped together along with other options that usually show up when you try to talk to Shadowheart at the camp. Choose the appropriate response after she pushes forward her idea for an intimate moment alone. Afterward, head to your bedroll and interact with it to see that you have a choice to go to bed alone or to find Shadowheart. By clicking on Shadowheart, players share a moment with her at the cliffside. You can be a bit more forward with your dialogue choices during your time alone with her, but still, keep the same guidelines in mind in order to secure the romance path. When she asks you about yourself, the Persuasion roll dialogue option will not ruin anything if you succeed it. When she tries to share about herself but says she can't, she'll appreciate it if you don't pry further. As previously mentioned, anything you've managed to make her open up about at this point will help with regard to dialogue choices. Eventually, you both will lie down on the rocks, and choosing the next two appropriate dialogue choices for a moment will lead to your first kiss and officially begin your relationship.

*"I can't help but feel like you and I might have missed a chance to connect. Truly connect."  

### BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act II

Act II will eventually bring you to the Silent Library in the Gauntlet of Shar. As the Location's name suggests, a couple of events that take place during the corresponding Quests and objectives within will inevitably affect Shadowheart, as she is a loyal follower of Shar. At some point in the dungeon, you'll come across a Statue of Shar that you can have your Companions pray to. Doing so with Shadowheart will have her reaffirm her belief in Shar, declaring that she will give the entirety of her heart and soul to Shar from then on. It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it. Eventually, Balthazar, the main Enemy for this Quest and Location is trying to claim a sleeping entity called the Nightsong, who you'll get to reach after you get magically transported to a different realm in the depths of the Gauntlet of Shar. After successfully claiming victory against him in the ensuing battle, Shadowheart will find herself holding the Spear of Night. You will then have the choice of telling her to go ahead and kill the Nightsong, or to lower her weapon instead, which unfortunately will require a successful Charisma check with a DC of 20. As you can imagine, either choice will have large consequences for the world of the game, which may include effects on your relationship with Shadowheart. Killing the Nightsong results in Shadowheart truly embracing her role as a chosen of Shar and having no more time or energy to spare loving anything or anyone else. Successfully sparing the Nightsong will eventually allow you to convince Shadowheart to leave behind the Shar. To do this, simply go with the dialogue option that will continue your relationship whenever the choice presents itself. The transition will be hard on her, but your support through the difficult time will allow your romance to grow stronger. The Nightsong will also reveal herself to be a daughter of Selune and will have answers to the question of Shadowheart's lost past. While it is again not certain whether killing the Nightsong will put an end to your romance with Shadowheart, it is probably not advisable to risk it.

 

### BG3 Shadowheart Romance Guide Act III

As mentioned, following this route will have Shadowheart turn away from her devotion to the Shar. Following the important, irrevocable decision to spare Nightsong, She will instead be blessed by Selune, the moon goddess. This will cause her to be forsaken by the Shar, thus her eventual decision, helped by your convincing, to leave this loyalty behind. Nightsong herself will reveal herself to be Dame Aylin, daughter of the moon goddess. After progressing in Act III, and keeping your relationship with Shadowheart going, Aylin will eventually tell you what she knows of Shadowheart's past, including why she has an aversion to swimming. Some more time later, your romance will culminate with a scene that starts with receiving an invite for you to swim with her, as a symbol of her leaving her life as a chosen of the Shar behind. This will turn into the final intimate scene where you and your lover will enjoy each other's company as you skinny dip in the calm waters.

 

### Shadowheart Approval Guide

If you are looking to befriend or romance Shadowheart, you will have to get her approval up. Companions are not black and white in BG3, but they have some characteristics you can consider when forming your party and making game choices.


General Personality Tips

Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.
Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.
Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.
Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.
A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.
Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.
As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.

General Personality Tips

* Really enjoys privacy and boundaries but rewards curiosity. She appreciates when space is given to her and when people don't pry too much.

* Has a heart of gold under the tough exterior, and values peaceful resolutions rather than brute force. She'll appreciate using deception, wit, and persuasion to arrive at these resolutions.

* Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty.

* Approves of deeds of self-Interests including extortion, thievery, and scamming, as long as they're justified enough. This makes her approval instances somewhat have an inconsistent pattern.

* A lot of her approval instances come from Persuasion, Deception, Religion, and Insight Checks. Her most important scenes require successful Insight checks. Failing some will actually earn disapproval from her.

* Dislikes Lae'zel and most of her opinions and ideas.

* As a worshipper of Shar and also by default a Cleric of the Trickery Domain. Following her principles of secrecy, indirect approach, and deceit as a consistent principle is a good way of gaining approval with Shadowheart.

 

Check out our Companion Guide for all compiled approval instances

Note this guide is a work in progress. Some of the information below reflects what was available during Early Access. Some situations, flags, and events may have changed. Please feel free to edit this page and contribute to the guide.

 



   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 

   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
 

   Shadowheart Approval UP 
 
   Shadowheart Approval DOWN 
  


APPROVAL UP:
Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid
After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.
Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 
Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals
Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins
Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt
Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods
Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.
Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.
Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.
After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.
Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.
On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.
With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.
When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.
Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)
Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.
Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.
Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.
Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.
Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.
If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.
When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.
Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance
Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave
Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.
Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.
Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.
Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free
Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.
After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.
Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.
Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands
After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.
When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.
With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.
After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.
Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.
After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)
Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf
Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin
Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,
Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)
With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.
When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers
Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"
Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.
Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual
Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll
Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check
Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.
In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)
Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.
After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.
When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins
Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.
Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla
When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion
Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.
Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge
Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.
Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.
Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.
Play hide and seek with Oliver
Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

Play hide and seek with Oliver
Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern
During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern
Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly
Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon
Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

Convince the sisters to practice on themselves
Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents
Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

Attack Yurgir straight 
Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest
Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.
Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.
During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.
Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted
After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.
Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream
Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal
After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships
Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it
Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes
After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"
When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.
When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.
While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.

APPROVAL UP:

Intro Area/Ravage Beach/Dank Crypt

* Rescue her from her pod in the Nautiloid

* After rescuing her from the Mind Flayer Pod in Escape the Nautiloid and you chose the option to go with her in looking for supplies and a healer during Find a Cure.

* Telling Shadowheart in Camp that making finding the healer your top priority rewards you with Approval. 

* Either passing an Animal Handling check on the frightened Boar that (Astarion Spooked him during his recruitment event) or telling it to calm down with Speak with Animals

* Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins

* Agree with Shadowheart after fighting the undead scribes in the Dank Crypt

* Successfully make a Religion check on the Book of Dead Gods

* Successfully Deceive Lae’zel captors when she’s in her cage.

* Asking Lae’zel to say “please” before letting her out.

Druid Grove

* Show Guex in the Druid Grove your sword fighting technique.

* Persuade Zevlor and Aradin to stop fighting in Druid's Grove.

* After saving Nadira from the Bugbear Assassin in the Grove, use Deception to convince her to give you the Soul Coin.

* Prevent the Tieflings from killing the caged Goblin Sazza, because she's worth more information alive.

* On your first encounter with Zorru, talk to Lae’zel and ask her if she plans on being rough with everyone she meets.

* With Lae’zel in the party, talk to Zorru and stop Lae’zel from demanding that Zorru bow to her.

* When Arka asks you why you care whether a goblin lives or dies, choose the option that says vengeance eats people alive.

* Within the Emerald Grove, allow Silver(wolf) to take your scent.(Speak with animals needed)

* Successfully persuade Kagha to let Arabella go.

* Tell Kagha that protecting your own sometimes requires cruelty.

* Swear to use the vial of Wyvern poison Poison Nettie gives you.

* Agree with Shadowheart after you swear to use the poison.

* Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals.

* If you call Raphael mad and tell him you’ll never make a deal with a devil.

* When you encounter Pandirna in the Storeroom, As a paladin offer to heal her.

Forest

* Telling Edowin's siblings to leave.

* Convince the Owlbear not to kill you in its cave through Performance

* Let the Owlbear Cub live after killing the mother in its cave

* Tell Scratch (dog) that he can come to your Camp if his friend doesn't wake up.

* Listening to her when she tells you to leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave.

* Offer to help Johl and Demir take Mayrina back from Auntie Ethel.

Blighted Village

* Persuade the Goblins at the entrance to let you pass peacefully.

* Pass the Very hard Persuasion check and hire the Ogres for free

* Persuade the Goblins at the Windmill to leave peacefully.

* After Helping the Gnome in the Windmill, Ask for compensation

Risen Road

* When you first meet Karlach, choose either dialogue that does not say you were sent by the paladins. After that, pass either Intimidation/Persuasion Check. If  Wyll is a party member, convincing him to spare her by convincing him through the shared visions.

* Using the Bard Persuade option with Rugan to give you their cargo

Sunlit Wetlands

* When the player emulates the roar of a mind flayer while talking to Lorin.

* Say "This is nothing to do with me. Goodbye" when you encounter Auntie Ethel and the brothers upon trying to enter the Sunlit Wetlands

* After Auntie Ethel is found out, tell Johl and Demir this is their problem.

* When entering the swamp pass succeed in the perception roll, then baa at the redcap when you speak to them.

* With Astarion in the part, Question why he attacks Gandrel and say that he didn't need to kill him.

Goblin Camp

* Make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp

* After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Lae'zel you resisted in your dream.

* After the 1st Tadpole Dream, tell Shadowheart you refused/resisted in your dream.

* Use intimidation the 2nd time to force Novice Crusher to kiss your foot

* After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, make him kiss your foot.

* After telling Novice Crusher "I'd Sooner spit in your face" and then winning the fight, try to finish him off. (Will start battle with the Entire Camp)

* Convince Tracker Klagga to give you the poem from the dead dwarf

* Telling tracker grikka (goblin near the roasting dwarf) you can get answers from the prisoner.

* Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and agree with her to prioritise Halsin

* Win in Chicken Chase, convince Krolla to give your money using illithid powers,

* Invite the Owlbear cub to the camp (Happens in the Goblin Camp and you must not kill the Owlbear in the Cave)

* With Speak to Animals and while playing Chicken Chase. Convince the Owlbear to help you win.

* When Krolla refuses to give your winnings for Chicken Chase, Use Illithid powers

* Telling the Goblin Child Eight in the Outdoor Goblin Camp, "Im sorry for your loss"

* Persuade Booyahg Piddle to spend his time in prayer instead of reading the manuscript.

* Agree to the Loviatar preists ritual

* Torture Liam for Torturer Spike without Wyll

* Sucessfully Tortures Liam For Wyll. Need Persuasion Check

* Intimidate Torturer Spike to tell you the information.

* In the Shattered Sanctum With Wyll in the Party, express interest in joining the game with the trio Goblins talking about the blade. (Room before going to the Throne room of Dror Ragzlin, the area will be in the west)

* Tell Minthara you know the location of the grove but win the intelligence roll to hide the location.

* After Finishing torturing Liam, tell minthara the prisoner revealed the location and win the Deceit Check.

* When First meeting Halsin, Tell Him you will help him with the goblins

* Tell Halsin to stay in the Worg Pens

Shattered Sanctum

* Agree to ritual with Abdirak

Underdark

* Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE.

* Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla

* When talking to the Myconid king, succeed in the Persuasion

* Tell the Restless Myconid the truth about the parasite and that you seek safe passage.

* Calm and convince the Rothé to clear the way in the Abandoned Refuge

* Give Owlbear Cub a piece of food from your bag, while in camp.

* Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Performance check.

* Offer to share details of the Nautiloid Ship to Omeluum and succeed in the Intelligence check.

* Tell BOOOOOAAAL "I won't let you enslave them any longer"

Last Light Inn

* Tell Isobel that Marcus is trying to kidnap her.

* Play hide and seek with Oliver

* Refuse to drink Jaheira's spiked wine

Ruined Battlefield

* Play hide and seek with Oliver

* Deceive the toll collector, Gerringothe Thorm

* During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Pass the deception check against Kar'niss telling him to give you his lantern

* During 'Seek Protection from the Shadow Curse' Successfully convince Kar'niss to leave the area without the lantern

* Once you receive the moon lantern, refuse to release the pixie Dolly Dolly Dolly

* Everytime you successfully mime drinking against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

* Everytime you successfully recall a story against Thisobald Thorm in The Waning Moon

House of Healing

* Convince the sisters to practice on themselves

* Convince Malus Thorm to kill himself

Reithwin Masons' Guild

* Tell Arabella that you'll find her parents

* Tell Arabella that she can stay at your camp

Gauntlet of Shar

* Attack Yurgir straight 

* Convince Balthazar to lend you 'aid' for your quest

* Before starting the Sharran Trials, interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and let her do as she pleases.

* Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, agree with her about the sacrifice she needs to perform for Lady Shar.

Camp

* During the first night in Camp, agree with her statement that it's best that you find someone who can cure all of you.

* During the first Tadpole dream Camp Event, Convince Lae'zel to stand down.

* Shadowheart likes to see Scratch Petted

* After the 2nd Tadpole dream, telling the group to stop using the Tadpole's powers.

* Saying you regret your choice after the 3rd tadpole dream

* Refuse Raphael's/The Devil's Deal

* After the conversation with the devil tell shadowheart you would never trust the devil

* After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"

* Tell shadowheart you dont care what she worships

* Ask her about shar worship and persuade her you have no problems with it

* Talk shadowheart about her missing memories, tell her you want her to show her the flowers she likes

* After a succesful persuasion check when talking about Shar , say "remind me" or "She doesn't sound appealing, going by her titles", after this she will explain Shar. Important choices is to either say "I won't cast judgements on your beliefs" or "I'd be lying if I said it didn't sound convincing......"

* When Shadowheart has a weird magic event, choose to change the subject.

* When Lae'zel discovers that Shadowheart is in possession of a githyanki heirloom, take her side.

* While in camp, Shadowheart will ask if you would like to listen to a story about herself, the only thing that she can remember. If you say yes, and thank her for sharing in the end, you will get an approval.


APPROVAL DOWN:

Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.
Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove
During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.
Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp
Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir
Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.
Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.
If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.
Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.
Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.
Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.
Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty
Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.
During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."
In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.
Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.
If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.
Give the Artist 200 Coin
Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.
Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.
Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get

APPROVAL DOWN:

* Join Lae'zel in looking for crèche after freeing her.

* Agree to help Wyll save the refugees in the Druid Grove

* During your conversation with Auntie Ethel in Emerald Grove, mention that you need help as you’ve been infected by a mind flayer parasite.

* Try to persuade the goblin guard outside the Goblin Camp

* Help Auntie Ethel when she's confronted by Johl and Demir

* Shadowheart has a rivalry attitude towards Lae'zel, heed to Lae'zel's advice will upset her.

* Telling her she's keeping something back in "what will you do, if we manage to remove the tadpoles" conversation will result in her displeasure. As of patch 3, this can be repeated infinitely.

* If you choose to walk in on the two trolls having sex in the Blighted Village.

* Tell Raphael  you would do anything to remove the tadpole.

* Insist on helping Mayrina when talking to Auntie Ethel at her house.

* Telling the group you trust Astarion, after letting him drink your blood during a long rest.

* Take Shadowheart, Lae'zel and Astarion to the chicken chase area. Talk to Shadowheart's area dialogue prompt and tell her not to be hasty

* Talking to Shadowheart either in camp or the field. Ask her about Shar. After passing the persuasion checks and going through multiple hoops of correct dialogue so that Shadowheart will explain her religion. Call her faith evil.

* During the first night in camp, when she tells you to be careful with Gale, you'll get a disapproval when you choose the fourth option saying "If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself."

*If anyone has me concerned, it's you. You haven't exactly been open about yourself* In Shattered Sanctum, if you choose to let Halsin stay and take matters to your own hands, you will get a disapproval.

* Drink the wine laced by Jaheira with truth serum.

* If you swear to Nettie you’ll take the poison once symptoms of turning into a mind flayer start showing.

* Give the Artist 200 Coin

* Lick the Dead Spider meat in Gauntlet of Shar.

* Within the Gauntlet of Shar - Before entering the Shadowfell Entrance, peer inside her mind while she’s praying to Lady Shar.

* Attacking the Goblins in the Windmill area of the Blighted Village with the first chance you get

 

### Shadowheart Inspiration Guide

All characters can gain Inspiration based on their Background when your party completes content in a specific way. Shadowheart is of Urchin background, (he was "Noble" in early access) so his inspiration boosts are:

* Born Innocent (Save the owlbear cub from the goblins.)

* Pyramid Scheme (Convince the ogres to work for you without giving them gold.)

* Not on my watch (Save Arabella from Kagha and her serpent.)

* Slaying the Piper (Rescure Mirkon from the harpies.)

* What Price Dignity? (Steal the toe ring from Crusher without getting caught.)

* Hunger Never Fades (Fill your plate at Raphael's House of Hope)

* Protect your Own (Protect the child who took the locket from Barth)

* Mercenary (Get some coin out of the Zhentarim survivors)

* The Allure of Coin (Steal from a child charmed by harpies)

* Artful Dodger (Earn Mattis' respect by taking his Rings)

* Family Comes First (Encourage Meli to tell the truth about the Amulet)

* Idolatry (Help Mol steal the Idol of Silvanus)

 

### Shadowheart Endings Guide



SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live



ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.


SHADOWHEART SPARES THE NIGHTSONG AND BETRAYS HER LADY SHAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Keep the Nightsong alive

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Kill Balthazar
Spare the Nightsong
Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live

* Keep the Nightsong alive

* Kill Balthazar

* Spare the Nightsong

* Choose options that will persuade Shadowheart to let the Nightsong live


ENDING DESCRIPTION
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.
As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 
In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 
Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.
Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.
Attack him.

If you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.
Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

All right. You have my support.
This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

If you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 
Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

Ready for what?
Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?
To get out of this place? Absolutely.
For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.
Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

Moonbeam
Selune's Spear of Night
Moonlight Glaive

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF SAVING THE NIGHTSONG
If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.
In Moonrise Towers, you will discover a power that makes Ketheric Thorm invulnerable. Your party will continue the investigation regarding this power and will lead you to travel to Gauntlet of Shar. At the Verge of the Shadows at (X:-718 Y:-845) you will find a body of water that serves as the entrance to Shadowfell, the domain of Lady Shar. You will get a warning that the state of the region can change depending on your decisions, such as quests becoming unavailable. If you proceed to do so, we recommend following our guide to get the desired outcome. In this case, we will allow Shadowheart to save the Nightsong but betray Lady Shar.

As you step forward into the statue and through the body of water, you will feel your body struggle as you fight back the sensation. Your character will get knocked out, together with your party. Once you come back to your senses, you will find yourselves in Shadowfell, and Shadowheart immediately recognizes the presence of Lady Shar. However, you will be interrupted as Balthazar flies in to tell you to hurry along and become a witness to his work. Shadowheart defies him and quickly tells him that he does not belong in the Dark Lady's domain. 

In this area, Balthazar has no desire to fight unless you initiate it. He will ask that you follow him as he leads the way into Nightsong's Prison. Your party will be doing a series of jumps until you make it to the bottom of Shadowfell. The pattern shouldn't be difficult and each member is guaranteed to survive the jumps as long as it's near the ledge, and not falling off the rocks. Once you finally catch up with Balthazar, you realize that the relic that Discipe Z'rell was referring to was the Nightsong, which is in fact, a humanoid. She invites you to "heap more sins upon your head. My retribution will be all the sweeter for them." Nightsong continues to reveal, that she supplies Ketheric Thorm's immortality with her own soul. Balthazar calls her "Aylin" and commands you to keep back to secure her for a journey. 

Balthazar will tell you that she, the Nightsong, possesses immortal strength and lends it to General Throm through his work. After realizing that she is the key to Ketheric Thorm's immortality, you will now have the option to save her or let Balthazar do his job. 

1. If she's the reason Ketheric Thorm is invulnerable, you're not taking her. Leave, or you're a dead man.

2. Go on, then. Take the Nightsong to Ketheric. Get it over with.

3. Attack him.

*Attack himIf you choose the first option, Karlach will give you her approval and you will begin to fight Balthazar right after. Take note that this area is surrounded by Balthazar's minions and they will have the advantage as they are in a higher position. Plan well so you can survive this assault. With Balthazar out of the picture, the Nightsong addresses Shadowheart. She possesses the power to free her or kill her. Shadowheart will turn to you and tells you that "Her fate is mine to seal. Let me handle this." but the Nightsong tells her that the only fate she's sealing is her own and that to become a Dark Justiciar, she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude.

Shadowheart is conflicted about what she wants to achieve and you will be given the option to help her out:

4. Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.

5. Do as you must.

6. Is this truly what you want?

7. Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.

8. Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

 If you choose the 3rd option, you will sense hesitance in her voice. You will get another chance to talk to her, or sway her with the next choices:

9. Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.

10. Do as you must.

11. Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.

12. Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Choose the 4th option which will then lead you to the next choices:

13. All right. You have my support.

14. This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.

15. You want to fight? Fine.

Next, choose the 2nd option so Nightsong will once again, interrupt your conversation with Shadowheart. Nightsong reveals that she knows of the only memory that Shadowheart has. The memory of her being hunted by wolves, and yet, Shadowheart still can't remember what she has lost. Shadowheart still believes that she is meant to become the Lady Justiciar, and you will get the next choices here:

16. Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.

17. [PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.

18. She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.

19. Say nothing.

*Say nothingIf you attempt the Persuasion check, you will need to pass a DC of 21, choosing the 3rd option will also get the same results and grant the approval of Karlach. When successful, she will procure the spear of Lady Shar and grips it tightly as if she's ready for anything that was to come, and yet, she throws away the spear, abandoning her lifelong quest. Shadowheart now fears that she will be disowned, and she fears what will happen next to her. Nightsong tells her that her fate is not fixed and to lay a friendly hand on her, to fight the battle that has been awaiting her, the one that will take your party to Ketheric Thorm, back to Moonrise Towers. 

Upon doing so, she calls out to Moonmaiden Selune as power surges through her arm. She declares that the Nightsong is no more, and she transforms into an armored Dame Aylin. She spreads out her wings and swings her mighty sword. She addresses Shadowheart once again and urges that she was able to spurn her Dark Lady, and may start to feel a stirring of the truth after what she has done. Dame Aylin that there is a battle yet to be fought after being freed from her century-long prison. She will now ask Shadowheart, "Are you ready?"

20. Ready for what?

21. Dark Lady be merciful... What have I done?

22. To get out of this place? Absolutely.

23. For my weapon? Naturally. 

If you choose the first one, she responds with "To kill Ketheric Thorm" and she will fly away to lead the assault in Moonrise Towers against Thorm's army. Shadowheart asks that you leave Shadowfell already after what she has done, and she doesn't want to be in her domain when her rage falls upon her.  As you travel through the portal, Shadowheart goes out for a moment. She tells you that she heard Lady Shar's voice after she defied her. She has been abandoned by her goddess and allies. Powerless, she will now seek answers from Dame Aylin.

Shadowheart will earn the following rewards:

* Moonbeam

* Selune's Spear of Night

* Moonlight Glaive

 

If you remain supportive of Shadowheart and continue becoming her lover, there is a good chance that you will advance your romance with her. Make sure to check the Companion Approvals page to get her approvals. Aside from that, Saving the Nightsong will also result to an easier battle against Ketheric Thorm, but the fight will be taken beneath the Moonrise Towers, to the Mind Flayer Colony. This is where the second and final battle against Ketheric Thorm will take place.

 

 



SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar



ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.



SHADOWHEART KILLS THE NIGHTSONG AND BECOMES THE DARK JUSTICIAR
ENDING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:

Kill Balthazar
Kill Nightsong

HOW TO OBTAIN ENDING:

Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar

* Kill Balthazar

* Kill Nightsong

* Choose the following dialogue options indicated below to lead Shadowheart into following Lady Shar


ENDING DESCRIPTION
When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.
Do as you must.
Is this truly what you want?
Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.
Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.
[PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.
She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.
Say nothing.

Shadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.
Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

Dark Justiciar Gauntlets
Dark Justiciar Half-Plate
Dark Justiciar Mail
Dark Justiciar Boots
Shar's Spear of Evening

 
RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING THE NIGHTSONG
As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked
Jaheira will die in battle
Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest
Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.

When Shadowheart confronts the Nightsong, she tells Shadowheart that the only fate she's sealing is her own, that she will know no love, no joy, but only servitude. At this point, you sense Shadowheart's hesitation, and you may be able to sway her from the path of duty to the path of light. If you want the outcome of Shadowheart becoming Lady Justiciar, choose the second one.

24. Trust Shadowheart- do not interfere.

25. Do as you must.

26. Is this truly what you want?

27. Choose your own way, Shadoeheart. You cannot allow your goddess to control you.

28. Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.

Then your next choice should be the first one. However, if you choose the first one, Karlach will give you her disapproval, while Astarion will give his approval. 

29. Kill her. Let's finish this ritual.

30. [PERSUASION] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her, you'll regret it.

31. She knows something about you. Spare her, and see what she has to say.

32. Say nothing.

*Say nothingShadowheart summons the Spear of Lady Shar and pierces Nightsong with it. Nightsong tells her that she is Shar's child after all as she feels true death, at last. Shortly after, Shadowheart will hear the voice of her goddess, Lady Shar. She calls out to her as her Chosen, her Warrior, and her Dark Justiciar. After this, Shadowheart will receive rewards from her. Lady Shar speaks of attacking Ketheric Thorm after he shunned her embrace and using her domain to house the Nightsong. If you follow this guide, killing Nightsong will complete the 'Find the Nightsong' quest.

Shadowheart will receive the following rewards:

33. Dark Justiciar Gauntlets

34. Dark Justiciar Half-Plate

35. Dark Justiciar Mail

36. Dark Justiciar Boots

37. Shar's Spear of Evening

 

As Shadowheart embraces the will of Lady Shar and she becomes Shar's chosen, she will tell you that there will be no room for love now that she has become the Dark Justiciar. This will throw out any chances of romancing Shadowheart. Additionally, the following events will take place:

38. The Selunite Cleric named Isobel will perish during the battle, and the Last Light Inn will get attacked

39. Jaheira will die in battle

40. Dammon will die, preventing the player from earning Infernal Iron that can be used in Karlach's romance and personal quest

41. Art Cullagh will also die, preventing you to recruit Halsin and the famed bear form romance.

 

### Shadowheart Tips and Notes

This build centers on healing synergies and buffs for the party while rounding out Shadowheart's laughable intelligence. Use Click Heels to inflict Dash or Off Hand Attack (Melee) as a bonus action. Use Selune's Dream either out of combat or on fey in combat.

* Warped Headband of Intellect

* The Oak Father's Embrace

* Hellrider's Pride

* Boots of Speed

* Xyanyde and Loviatar's Scourge

Alternatively, The Watcher's Guide or Vision of the Absolute (Branded probably)

* Neck: Amulet of Selune's Chosen or Broodmother's Revenge

* Ring: Ring of Restorative Gravity, The Whispering Promise

* Any Light Crossbow +1

 





Companions


 Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll



Astarion  ♦  Gale  ♦  Halsin  ♦  Jaheira  ♦  Karlach  ♦  Lae'zel  ♦  Minsc  ♦  Minthara  ♦  Wyll








Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close







Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more




Join the page discussion

Tired of anon posting? Register!








 Submit











 Submit
 Submit
Close









 Submit






 Submit




 Submit








 Submit
 Submit
Close









 Submit
 Submit
Close







 Submit
 Submit
Close




 Submit
 Submit
Close


Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit
Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit
Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit
Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit
Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit
Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit
Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit
Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit
Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit
Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit
Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit
Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit
Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit
Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit
Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

Load more

* Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit09 Sep 2023 13:17  if you strip her at the end of the intro, she will spawn at the beach with a new mace + shield + bandit armor , while lae'zel remains naked if you do the same.anyone know why that is? after all lae'zel seems to have had some time to find new equipment.





ReplyReplies (0)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit

* Anonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.ReplyReplies (1)6+111-1 Submit08 Sep 2023 14:34  No reason to romance a character that cucks the player.

ReplyReplies (1)6+111-16+111-16

11

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit08 Sep 2023 12:59  Like others have said, you don't need a roll at all if you stay quiet and let her decide for herself about the Nightsong.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit07 Sep 2023 19:56  Soooo, when we finish her quest, does she get special powers or something like Astarion does when you let him ascend?

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit05 Sep 2023 23:01  "I won't let you enslave them any longer" dialogue option with BOOOAL gives approval.

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit05 Sep 2023 21:19  Succeeding the Intelligence check describing the Nautiloid in exchange for the Ring of Mind Shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the Underdark.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1ReplyReplies (0)2+12-1 Submit05 Sep 2023 01:06  Spoiler!!!                   I had her parents die. all info says this would free her from Shar's hold on her. but instead, now the hand pain started to come up every 1-3 minutes. looks like some programmer mistook 0 and 1

ReplyReplies (0)2+12-12+12-12

2

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit03 Sep 2023 00:17  Anyone has an idea where can I found the Dead Fisherman that tells more about Shadowheart?

ReplyReplies (1)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)1+11-1 Submit01 Sep 2023 00:58  Attacking the goblins at the windmill after speaking with them results in disapproval.

ReplyReplies (0)1+11-11+11-11

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit31 Aug 2023 23:01  As a Paladin in the Emerald Grove, if you offer to heal Pandirna in the storage room for a price, you'll get + Approval from Shadowheart (not if you do it for free).

ReplyReplies (0)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit30 Aug 2023 12:28  Because of the changed cutscene, killing Edwin's tadpoles does not get Shadowheart's approval.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit

* Anonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubtReplyReplies (0)13+13-1 Submit30 Aug 2023 10:10  The legendary waifu no doubt

ReplyReplies (0)13+13-113+13-113

3

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit29 Aug 2023 18:40  In the owlbear cave, when you first go to loot the chest she'll tell you not to, choose "if you insist" for approval. Then ungroup her and run her right to the mouth of the cave, loot the chest without losing approval.

ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit29 Aug 2023 11:02  When I rescued Halsin, I asked him to come along with the party which gained Shadowheart's approval. Then Halsin asked if I was sure he should come along since he couldn't contain his bear form at all times. Then, I selected something along the lines of "Nevermind, you should stay here" which again, gave me more approval.Super pleased she approved of my indecision :)





ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit27 Aug 2023 17:26  (act 3 spoiler) so on my current (2nd) playthrough, I convinced her to poke Nightsinger with the spear and she went full Shar naturally, but then in third act I convinced her to spare her parents and reject Shar instead, and now she's straight up broken on my end - and I don't mean just emotionally but technically too; she keeps greeting me as if she's still a Dark Justiciar and her ambient conversation reflects this too, and on top of that half the dialogue choices are identical for some ungodly reason (something about her memories). I tried turning her off and on again (i.e. killing and resurrecting her) but it didn't work.Just a heads up in case anyone wants to pursue this path because it seems completely broken right now.





ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit

* Anonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xdReplyReplies (0)5+13-1 Submit26 Aug 2023 15:38  "It is yet unknown if this means that your romance with her will be put to a stop, but it's probably not advisable to risk it" - I did it with Shadowheart and I managed to romance her further UwU I love this romance, feels organic, romantic, emotional, heart-tugging... at least for me xd

ReplyReplies (0)5+13-15+13-15

3

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit26 Aug 2023 03:00  At the end of act 3 and still no swimming scene. I have high approval and hit all the parts in this guide. Probably a bug?

ReplyReplies (1)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.ReplyReplies (1)3+11-1 Submit23 Aug 2023 16:34  When you try to persuade shadowheart not to kill the nightsong even if you fail she will not do it. IT might be she chooses on her own to not kill her and all you have to do is not encourage her too, but I haven't verified that.



ReplyReplies (1)3+11-13+11-13

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secretReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit21 Aug 2023 15:42  At the last light in, Shadow approves of keeping the ox's secret

ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit

* Anonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.ReplyReplies (1)4+17-1 Submit21 Aug 2023 01:40  There is an Inspiration for Shadowheart called "Fate must wait" for letting her die to the shadow curse in act 2 and waiting for her to res as a shadow zombie. Due to her innate resistance to the curse you can only do this in the level 2 or higher curse area's like the area around Moonrise towers or the little hut outside of Last Light inn Safe zone. Once she is a zombie you will enter combat and have to kill her, but fret not, doing so will put her back in a incapacitated state where you can help her up/resurrect her normally.

ReplyReplies (1)4+17-14+17-14

7

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit

* Anonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.ReplyReplies (1)5+13-1 Submit18 Aug 2023 10:15  Correction, offering to help Johl and Demir by finding their sister actually gets disapproval from Shadowheart.

ReplyReplies (1)5+13-15+13-15

3

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit16 Aug 2023 17:23  I had an option when using Shadowheart with (Cleric) a second time telling Dror Ragzlin to give her the scroll and be the one to do the 'Speak to the Dead' and after it I got an Inspiration from her. I started with an Origin character here but talked to Ragzlin with Shadowheart, I am not able to do this again on my other playthroughs though even when using an Origin character again and its weirding me out. Any other did it too? If so do you remember how? 

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit16 Aug 2023 05:08  Succeed a Persuasion check with Elder Brithvar after combat with Nere regarding freeing the Slaves and Shadowheart approves.

ReplyReplies (0)0+11-10+11-10

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit16 Aug 2023 03:38  Shadowheart approves if you persuade the two Rothe to attack the Herdmaster Skarjall and other 2 Duergar instead of breaking the cave-in. Don't know how it is without speak with animal.

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit15 Aug 2023 22:58  Shadowheart disapproves if you choose to immediately attack/kill Orgath and Morghal when entering Underdark Grymforge.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit15 Aug 2023 22:55  If you allow  her to kill Nightsing in the Shar Temple then she wont let you bone her, later u can give her night orchid flower but idk if it works or not...

ReplyReplies (1)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit15 Aug 2023 05:27  (Act 2 spoiler) fun fact: if you're a Selûne cleric and you read her mind while she's praying to Shar before entering Shadowfell, you can kill her right then and there to stop her.conversely, you can also encourage her to put Nightsong 'out of her misery' by killing her during the final confrontation.





ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit14 Aug 2023 20:47  For sparing the nightsong route you can just pick the say nothing options and shadowheart will choose to spare her on her own, no persuasion necessary. Might be relationship based, mine was “very good” beforehand.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.ReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit14 Aug 2023 20:08  Shadowheart approves: While Hag is dying and trying to make a deal, choose to intimidate (may need a fighter too) saying you want both the ability score and mayrina.

ReplyReplies (0)5+10-15+10-15

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuckReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit13 Aug 2023 17:58  I have a little problem with the Shadowheart quest. I'm on a mission to look for a Shar Watcher at Serpent's Crossroads, but I can't find him anywhere. Does anyone have any idea where he is? I would love to continue with your quest line but this is getting stuck

ReplyReplies (1)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.ReplyReplies (2)0+10-1 Submit12 Aug 2023 19:11  It's a DC 30 Persuasion Check by the by, not DC 20.

ReplyReplies (2)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]ReplyReplies (1)22+10-1 Submit11 Aug 2023 22:14  HARD *Spoiler*Shadowheart Approval:In Act 2 (or around there)Quest: Punish the WickedAt the time of completing the quest (bringing back the ledger) to He Who WasChoose dialogue: 2. Here - Take it2.1 I'm here to make sure she sees justice    2.1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened?        2.1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends?            2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]                2.1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [Gale disapproves, Laezel approves]                    2.1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [Gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]                        2.1.1.1.1.1.1.X [fight starts] - no matter what choice you make, the quest giver will attack you and you will not be able to obtain the quest rewards which are 21GP, Raven Gloves & Shadowheart Inspiration point "Assist He Who Was in his task"Basically any of the choices 1. "Anything? then hurt yourself..." & 2. "[PERSUASION] Keep going" Will increase Shadowheart's approvalTotal: Gale disapproves -3, Laezel approves +2, Shadowheart approves +2Below is a breakdown of the dialogue and its results. This took me ~3 hours to write out. Makes me appreciate the writing for this game even more. It's only a snippet and not all the choices/outcomes are written here but, I hope this helps.1.I'm here to make sure she sees justice	1.1 Why don't you tell me what happened		1.1.1 What did the justiciar actually do to your friends			1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, Shadowheart approves]				1.1.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, Shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.1.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.2.2 Stop you've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.1.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [gale , laezel , shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.1.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.1.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.2 If it was drunk complaining, why did you report them?			1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.2.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproved, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.1.2 Stop. You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.2.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.2.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.2.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.2.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.2.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.2.1 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.2.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.2.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.2.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.2.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.2.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.2.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.2.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]		1.1.3 Don't blame others for what you did			1.1.3.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.1.3.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]				1.1.3.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.1.3.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.1.3.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.1.3.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.1.3.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.1.3.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.1.3.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.1.3.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]			1.1.3.2 [BARD][PERSUASION] Yours is a classic tale of cowardice = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.2.1 This was just some perverted fantasy = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.2 She was punished = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.1.3.2.3 That was fun = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]			1.1.3.3 [BARD][PERSUASION] When I tell this tale, you won't be the villain = [laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]				1.1.3.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]				1.1.3.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]	1.2 You "didn't mean" to kill your friends?		1.2.1 What did the justiciar actially do to your friends?			1.2.1.1 [PERSUASION] Anything? then hurt yourself as Ben and Marc did [gale disapproves, laezel approves, shadowheart approves]				1.2.1.1.1 Start stabbing = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.1.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.1.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.1.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.1.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.1.2.1 What you said to punish her =[Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.1.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.2 Prove you're sorry = [gale disapproves, laezel approves]					1.2.1.1.2.1 [PERSUASION] Keep going = [gale disapproves, shadowheart approves]						1.2.1.1.2.1.1 What you said to punish her = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [fight starts]						1.2.1.1.2.1.3 That was awful = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.2.2 Stop, You've done enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]						1.2.1.1.2.2.1 What you said to punish her = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.2 That was fun - can I do it again? = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]						1.2.1.1.2.2.3 That was awful = [Quest complete, Shadowheart Inspiration]				1.2.1.1.3 Stop. You're willing to hurt yourself - that's enough = [gale approves, laezel disapproves, shadowheart disapproves]					1.2.1.1.3.1 What happened wasn't her fault - she deserves forgiveness = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.2 Do not speak to me like that = [fight starts]					1.2.1.1.3.3 You whine more than she did = [fight starts]















































































































































































































































































ReplyReplies (1)22+10-122+10-122

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.ReplyReplies (1)0+10-1 Submit11 Aug 2023 16:14  Uh needs update as you can't crush the tadpole outside the druid grove anymore.

ReplyReplies (1)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.ReplyReplies (1)2+10-1 Submit11 Aug 2023 00:06  Tell Shadowheart you will not judge her when she confides her fear to you in the basement caves.  +approves.

ReplyReplies (1)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.ReplyReplies (2)11+10-1 Submit10 Aug 2023 11:04  If you're looking to romancer her, do so as a Cleric of Selûne - you won't regret it.

ReplyReplies (2)11+10-111+10-111

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.ReplyReplies (2)6+11-1 Submit09 Aug 2023 18:03  can a brotha hide his pickle in Shadowheart during that celebration at camp? I started a romance with her previously and had the wine with kiss and all that jazz but didn't really get any special cutscenes at the party, so I'm wondering if I screwed something up.

ReplyReplies (2)6+11-16+11-16

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit09 Aug 2023 10:50  "Fight the fake god Boooal in THE FESTERING COVE." did not give me + approval, but it did give her an inspiration point. "Take the Boots of Speed from Thulla" also didn't work on my playthrough, come to think of it my Shadowheart has been sitting at 79 approval for a while now, is there a soft-cap in Act 1? If there is then it would have to be different for each companion, because my Gale is at 94.



ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit08 Aug 2023 16:50  *spoiler*Declining to drink Jaheira's truth wine give Shadowheart approval.



ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)ReplyReplies (3)6+11-1 Submit08 Aug 2023 13:41  "Hates acts of unnecessary cruelty" yet she disapproves not killing a defensless man tied to a chair.*SPOILER*(Rugan)













ReplyReplies (3)6+11-16+11-16

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit07 Aug 2023 19:04  *spoiler* I killed general thorm but her quest still says kill general thorm. anyone else having this issue and/ or solution?



ReplyReplies (1)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.ReplyReplies (1)0+11-1 Submit07 Aug 2023 14:30  Dame Aylin did not tell me anything about Shadowheart in Act 3. It might be a glitch but I reloaded some of my saves and replayed a ton of missions and she still wont tell me anything about shadowheart's fear of swimming.

ReplyReplies (1)0+11-10+11-10

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?ReplyReplies (1)2+11-1 Submit07 Aug 2023 04:48  What will be the ending of the romance with her on the way Shar?



ReplyReplies (1)2+11-12+11-12

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. ReplyReplies (1)4+10-1 Submit06 Aug 2023 23:56  *Spoiler*You do not necessarily need a persuasion roll to prevent Shadowheart killing the Nightsong. I don't know the steps taken leading up to it, I presume it's just allowing her to open up beforehand, but I remained silent throughout that entire thing and she still turned away from Shar. 







ReplyReplies (1)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit06 Aug 2023 23:53  So if I did not peacefully resolve the tiefling situation am i ducked or is the romance recoverable 

ReplyReplies (1)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit06 Aug 2023 20:19  *Spoiler*Persuading the Sovereign in the Underdark gives Shadowheart approval



ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit06 Aug 2023 15:02  *Spoiler*Romance is still possible on the Shar path and has unique content.



ReplyReplies (0)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit06 Aug 2023 08:18  *Spoiler*You do not need to save the tieflings to trigger the Act 1 romance with Shadowheart. It seems the trigger is just to get her approval up sufficiently. In my playthrough the conversation option to spend some time other alone (i.e., the campsite kiss scene) was available as I was still exploring the druid grove.



ReplyReplies (0)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved ofReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit05 Aug 2023 23:34  *Spoiler* When fighting the Hag/Auntie Ethel, Shadowheart's approval +increases+ if you Persuade/Deceive/Intimidate Auntie Ethel after you've almost beaten her in Sunlit Wetlands/Ancient Abode. You have to get Ethel to less than 10 HP and end your turn, then in the cut scene I chose "Give me the girl and the power or I will finish you off" which Shadowheart approved of



ReplyReplies (0)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.ReplyReplies (3)1+10-1 Submit04 Aug 2023 22:24  Shadowheart romance at camp celebration is locked if you have an active fling with Laezel.

ReplyReplies (3)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte BackgroundReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit04 Aug 2023 17:21  On release Shadowheart has been changed to Acolyte Background

ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.ReplyReplies (0)2+10-1 Submit03 Aug 2023 23:16  Accepting Astarion's apology "I'd do the same if our roles were reversed" gives approval.

ReplyReplies (0)2+10-12+10-12

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit

* Anonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil godReplyReplies (0)6+118-1 Submit30 Jul 2023 17:01  Why do people think Shadowheart is good aligned? She worships an evil god

ReplyReplies (0)6+118-16+118-16

18

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit

* Anonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.ReplyReplies (1)3+12-1 Submit29 Jul 2023 10:19  Shadowheart respec for those that aren't running Astarion and need a Thieves' Tools user:-Just grab one lvl of Rogue. Put Expertise on Sleight of Hand (for using Tools, since Tools proficiency isn't in the game)-Boost her Dex slightly. -Make sure she's in Medium Armor so there's no Stealth penalty.Walla, you still have her as your Trickery Cleric but now she can perform a thief's duty, which I'm sure she'd be happy to perform.









ReplyReplies (1)3+12-13+12-13

2

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lolReplyReplies (2)1+10-1 Submit21 Jul 2023 04:11  How well would a Shadowheart + Dark Urge story go? She is seemingly somewhat good-natured and does not like wanton bloodshed, but I really wanna romance her and be the Dark Urge lol

ReplyReplies (2)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit15 May 2023 13:42  Shadowheart also has approval up when the player successfully intimidates the sentry goblins when entering Moonhaven.

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit

* Anonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favorReplyReplies (0)4+13-1 Submit19 Jan 2023 14:00  Shar looks upon us with favor

ReplyReplies (0)4+13-14+13-14

3

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyesReplyReplies (0)6+10-1 Submit10 Jan 2023 18:05  Shadowheart doesn't like it when you give Auntie Ethel one of your eyes

ReplyReplies (0)6+10-16+10-16

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit02 Jan 2023 03:30  Approval up if you listen to Shadowheart when tells she tells you leave the Selûne chest alone in the owlbear cave. Approvel down for Lae’zel if she is in the party when you listen to Shadowheart about the chest.

ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.ReplyReplies (1)1+10-1 Submit27 Dec 2022 13:03  "Persuade the adventurers to leave outside of the Overgrown Ruins" This does not give approval for SH. She still comments on it, but there is no actual approval gain.

ReplyReplies (1)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit

* Anonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...ReplyReplies (2)4+112-1 Submit19 Nov 2022 18:10  Right now with Wizards learning Healing Word and other Cleric spells, Clerics are honestly kind of useless...

ReplyReplies (2)4+112-14+112-14

12

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit14 Sep 2022 19:55  Offering to find Mayrina for Johl and Demir leads to disapproval.

ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit21 Aug 2022 06:48  If you make Novice Crusher kiss your foot in the Goblin Camp you get +2 bumps (have to pass 2 intimidation checks).If you kiss his foot and steal his ring you get the ring, +1 inspiration, +1 approval from Shadowheart and some xp.



ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.ReplyReplies (0)0+11-1 Submit13 Jul 2022 07:16  The bard interaction  (Performance Check) you can use in exchange for the ring of mind shielding during the conversation with Omeluum in the underdark.

ReplyReplies (0)0+11-10+11-10

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approvalReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit11 Jul 2022 15:01  Using the bard interactions at the bird making its nest in the grove while using speak with animals gains approval

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the RedcapReplyReplies (0)8+10-1 Submit11 Apr 2022 12:41  + Approval for going BAAA at the Redcap

ReplyReplies (0)8+10-18+10-18

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 PersuasionReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit28 Jan 2022 10:42  + Approval in Underdark when talking to the Myconid king, need to succeed 5 Persuasion

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold thoReplyReplies (0)5+10-1 Submit28 Jan 2022 10:09  She fell out of boundary and dead back to the camp, ask Wither to ressurect her and+ Approval from Shadowheart(ded), Astarion, and Gale somehow.... 200 gold tho



ReplyReplies (0)5+10-15+10-15

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit27 Jan 2022 18:02  Grove route, celebration night, choosing to spend night with her, passing insight check+ Approval : You know there's a chance you should take it (smth like that)



ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with MintharaReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit26 Jan 2022 01:03  Goblin route:In celebration camp:+approval If you talk something along the lines would you like to share something on your mind+dissaprove if you end the night with Minthara







ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when askedReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit25 Jan 2022 23:02  + approval if you choose to through the Underdark rather than going from above (Risen Road).How to get: Release Halsin in Worg Pen but let him stay there, explore and solve Defiled Temple Puzzle (entrance near the Trader in Sanctum), go down the ladder and enter Underdark. Go back up and talk to Halsin again, pick Underdark route when asked





ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approvesReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit24 Jan 2022 00:18  Silver interaction in Druid Grove, if you're playing as Druid, you dont need to have Animal Speaking to pet him, just pick the Druid option after the first interaction. Shadowheart approves

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo CampReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit05 Dec 2021 13:28  + approval for deceiving Klagga at Gobbo Camp

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in BlightedReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit05 Dec 2021 02:54  + approval for asking barcus for compensation in Blighted

ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dexReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit16 Oct 2021 03:13  Shadowheart starting stats changed in patch 6. E.g Now has 10 char and 14 dex

ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approvalReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit22 Jul 2021 22:25  Recruiting the ogres in blightedvillage gives shadowheart approval

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmillReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit22 Jul 2021 22:19  gain approval if you tell her you don't care if she worships shar when you find the damaged statue next to the gnome windmill

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit22 Jul 2021 21:58  You get approval if you are Drow and tell the goblins hiding on top of the buildings in the blighted village that you should pluck their eyes out.



ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit15 May 2021 01:33  Smearing dung on your own face makes her Approval go up, not down. Trying to throw it is what makes her Approval go down.

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit01 May 2021 10:28  You lose approval with Shadowheart from giving Oskar, the artist, 200 gold to ease his journey back to Baldur's Gate but (as with all the companions) you gain approval if you try to persuade Brem to free Oskar before the topic of buying him ever comes up.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit

* Anonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.ReplyReplies (0)4+19-1 Submit05 Dec 2020 11:43  Spoilers!!!!!!Don't you think that Shadowheart's personality is more like a warlock than a cleric?Wyll's voice and personality remind me of Alistair in Dragon Age Origins.He loves to be the hero (eg. fight at grove's entrance) andto protect (eg. he cares about those tiefling kids).Although he seems happy with slaughtering all those goblins, I think he is a better fit for that class.To be honest, Shadowhearth seems quite evil, very secretive, and enjoys deceiving very much.I mean you won't even find out about her being a Shar disciple at least 3 hours in.















ReplyReplies (0)4+19-14+19-14

9

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit15 Nov 2020 09:12  If you go through the door she's pounding on from the inside before encountering her, either via lockpicking or just doing the "puzzle" in the ruins, she apparently gets shy and vanishes from our reality. 

ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) ReplyReplies (2)9+10-1 Submit07 Nov 2020 23:25  Personally I think she actually a brain washed selune follower(or the daughter of one) 

ReplyReplies (2)9+10-19+10-19

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boostReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit04 Nov 2020 21:11  Charisma out of a fight with gimblebok for a boost

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.ReplyReplies (1)10+11-1 Submit29 Oct 2020 04:24  I just found out, that if you play "lone wolf" without any members in your party shadowheart will go Insane and appear in your camp and try to kill you incase it isnt known yet.

ReplyReplies (1)10+11-110+11-110

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit

* Anonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval ReplyReplies (0)4+11-1 Submit27 Oct 2020 01:24  If you choose to go the underdark route you gain approval 

ReplyReplies (0)4+11-14+11-14

1

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wineReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit24 Oct 2020 14:16  Yeah pretty much can't unsee the dude in mocap pouring that wine

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. ReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit23 Oct 2020 08:27  Near the chapel where you meet her at the bandits on the hill if you manage to con the group into leaving. You will gain approval. 

ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)ReplyReplies (0)3+10-1 Submit22 Oct 2020 22:08  Shadowheart approves if you convince the 3 ogres to join you.  (I used persuade not sure about other options)

ReplyReplies (0)3+10-13+10-13

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit22 Oct 2020 15:43  Approval if you choose: "We need to follow any leads we can" and Disapproval if you choose: "Wandering into a goblin camp sounds risky at best" when following up leads about a healer.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit18 Oct 2020 18:23  Shadowheart also approves when you succeed animal handling check on that frightened boar that spawns next to Astarion second time you pass the area. 

ReplyReplies (1)7+10-17+10-17

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.ReplyReplies (0)1+10-1 Submit17 Oct 2020 20:50  Approval, convince memnos (yellow tiefling in the grove) to fight in "raid the grove quest". you need "fighter" trait.

ReplyReplies (0)1+10-11+10-11

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.ReplyReplies (0)0+10-1 Submit17 Oct 2020 19:56  Approval when you "baaaaaa" to the redcap.

ReplyReplies (0)0+10-10+10-10

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.ReplyReplies (1)7+10-1 Submit16 Oct 2020 12:19  God the 9 Dex REALLY bothers me. Even if she's a Str build rather than Dex build for weapon diversity in the party (Gale and Wyll don't lift, but apparently Astarion is drinking protein shakes to wash the blood down, I mean 12 Str on a Rogue, jesus) having -1 AC for most of Act 1 is pretty terrible. No wonder she's the party member who dies the most, according to Larian's data.The worst part is that getting rid of the -1 AC would be trivial: Just bump Str down 1, freeing up 2 pointsPut those 2 points into DexThen use the freed up racial bonus stat point to get Str back to a nice even 14 (she starts with 14 Str, not 15 as the wiki currently states)tldr: Shadowheart is a scrub at character gen, and Larian will probably fix it in the future.















ReplyReplies (1)7+10-17+10-17

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.ReplyReplies (1)6+10-1 Submit11 Oct 2020 16:32  Yes, I think they will change her stats allocation in future builds. Problem is they used default cleric stat allocation when you use pregen chars, they didn't mold her to suit her character and default half elf stat increases dex and wis. I couldn't watch trickery domain cleric with dex 9 so I changed it :).I don't care much about stats, but they don't suit her. She is an urchin, she has trickery domain and she is clumsier than me. Charisma should be like 12, she isn't very likable, but is still a half-elf, and she looks petite, certainly not str 14.





ReplyReplies (1)6+10-16+10-16

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normalReplyReplies (0)4+10-1 Submit11 Oct 2020 02:00  Each time you enter the camp, you can pet Scratch (dog). It will gain you approval with Shadowheart, Gale and Wyll each time.Don't know is it a bug or not. Looks normal



ReplyReplies (0)4+10-14+10-14

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.ReplyReplies (1)29+10-1 Submit08 Oct 2020 06:18  Trickery domain cleric with negative dex. That's the worst build i saw in game so far.

ReplyReplies (1)29+10-129+10-129

0

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit

* Anonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue sceneReplyReplies (2)5+17-1 Submit26 Sep 2020 18:39  Based on Baldur's Gate 3 developer interviews and previews released on youtube. I speculate that Shadowheart may be Neera from previous BG:EE games. Becoming a Shar follower is entirely in line with her general Character arc from previous games. EvidenceHalf-elfKnows about wild magic.Suicide mission- CN unwise decision making highly aligned with her BG character arc.Has a big secret. - Wild mage in hiding from discrimination and red wizards.And the biggest:Shouted "Half-Elf" in response to other character calling her an elf in a youtube preview of a video of a cut/dialogue scene



















ReplyReplies (2)5+17-15+17-15

7

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit

* Anonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifuReplyReplies (0)21+112-1 Submit30 Aug 2020 20:59  My waifu

ReplyReplies (0)21+112-121+112-121

12

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit

* Anonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.ReplyReplies (0)2+110-1 Submit30 Aug 2020 03:43  There's a theory going around that Shadowheart is a disguised drow, just like in BG2 wherespoilersYou infiltrate the drow Underdark as a disguised drow.That's pretty hot.





































ReplyReplies (0)2+110-12+110-12

10

 Submit Submit Submit* Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

* Anonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit

AnonymousAnonymous10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. ReplyReplies (1)12+10-1 Submit10 Aug 2020 21:09  It would be very interesting if her backstory involves Thultanthar and the shades. She's basically a priestess for the evil goddess Shar and Gale did say he saw shadow in her eyes at first meeting. I hope they don't skip the chance at exploring the plane of shadow with her too.  I'm thinking (Neverwinter Nights, Tim Burton, Soul Reaver) style mashup for the shadow plane and her potential dark appearance changes, if any. 

ReplyReplies (1)12+10-112+10-112

0

 Submit Submit SubmitLoad more

 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor



 Accept Terms and Save
 Close Preview
 Close Editor



Contributions to Fextralife Wikis are licensed under a Custom License.

Wiki Home
Gaming Wikis
Gaming Forum
Fextralife Home
Privacy Policy
 Terms of Use
 Copyright Policy
 Advertise on Fextralife



advertisement



Contributions to Fextralife Wikis are licensed under a Custom License.

Wiki Home
Gaming Wikis
Gaming Forum
Fextralife Home
Privacy Policy
 Terms of Use
 Copyright Policy
 Advertise on Fextralife

Contributions to Fextralife Wikis are licensed under a Custom License.* Wiki Home

* Gaming Wikis

* Gaming Forum

* Fextralife Home

* Privacy Policy

*  Terms of Use

*  Copyright Policy

*  Advertise on Fextralife



advertisementChat ⇈ ⇈



Recent Changes +
New page +
File Manager +
Members +
Page Manager +
Settings +
Create Wiki +








⇈ Back to top ⇈




Recent Changes +
New page +
File Manager +
Members +
Page Manager +
Settings +
Create Wiki +








⇈ Back to top ⇈

* Recent Changes +

* New page +

* File Manager +

* Members +

* Page Manager +

* Settings +

* Create Wiki +

* 






* 

* 

* ⇈ Back to top ⇈

